---
title: Mphof
date: 2009-07-16
url: https://www.pinballnews.com/news/mphof.html
source: Pinball News
era: legacy
---

Date: 16th July  2009

We're all familiar with the Pinball Hall of Fame in Las Vegas. Well, now there's an exhibition devoted to pinball's musical heritage.

Established by David Silverman's National Pinball Museum, the Music Pinball Hall of Fame is a permanent arcade exhibit at the Merriweather Post Pavilion in Columbia, Maryland.

The Music Pinball Hall of Fame

A popular live outdoor music venue in the Baltimore/Washington corridor - The Merriweather Post Pavilion was designed by architect Frank Gehry and which opened in 1967 since when it has held regular music events through the summer months.

The Music Pinball Hall of Fame is open to visitors during show hours and features nine music-themed games crossing five decades for the public to enjoy.

Beat Time by Williams

The oldest is the 1967 Beatles-inspired Beat Time by Williams, followed by Capt. Fantastic from 1976, Nugent  from 1978, Kiss and Dolly Parton, both from the following year, then The Rolling Stones (1980), Heavy Metal Meltdown (1987) and Guns N' Roses (1994).

Some of the games in the exhibit

The newest machines in the exhibit is a 2004 Stern Elvis machine.

Elvis by Stern

All are set on a suitably nostalgic 25 cents play to help bring back memories of the time when many of these game had only just been released.

The Music Pinball Hall of Fame

The Music Pinball Hall of Fame exhibit is by
the National Pinball Museum. Based in the outskirts of Washington, the museum now has over 500 machines awaiting construction of its permanent headquarters. Right now, it has 50 set up in a temporary home until a much larger building is found to house the full collection.

Back to the News page

Back to the
front page
