---
title: STAR WARS ANNOUNCED
date: 2017-06-08
url: https://www.pinballnews.com/site/2017/06/08/star-wars-announced
source: Pinball News
era: wordpress
---

**Stern Pinball Announces New *Star Wars Pinball* Machines**  **ELK GROVE VILLAGE, IL – June 6, 2017** – Stern Pinball, Inc., the world’s oldest and largest producer of arcade-quality pinball machines, proudly announced today the availability of a new line of pinball machines celebrating the Star Wars 40th Anniversary.  *Star Wars Pinball* machines will be available in Pro, Premium and Limited Edition models. The game will immerse players in the dynamic and challenging Star Wars pinball environment as they battle to restore justice to the Galaxy.  Stern’s Star Wars Pro, Premium and Limited Edition machines are packed with features that provide an irresistible game experience.  The game includes select speech and footage from the original Star Wars trilogy; color-changing LED-lighted inserts; a sculpted LED-lit Millennium Falcon; and a sculpted TIE Fighter.  The Limited Edition and Premium models also feature two LCD screens, an exploding Death Star interactive display, and a hyperspace ramp.  “We are excited to bring these pinball machines celebrating the Star Wars galaxy and adventures to our fans,” said Gary Stern, Chairman and CEO of Stern Pinball. “Our Star Wars Pinball machines give fans a fun, new way to enjoy the nonstop action and new game sounds, features and effects.”  In addition to the immersive theme and exciting game experience, Stern Pinball’s SPIKE-2 electronic platform enables high-definition graphics and innovative animations. The state-of-art electronic system also powers a high-fidelity 3-channel audio system that is three times more powerful than audio systems of previous generations.  *Star Wars Pinball* entertains with an amazing array of modern and classic features, making it suitable for all skill levels.  **Pricing and Availability:**  Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price: MSRP for sales to USA end-users, before any VAT, GST, Sales Tax, Duties, or other taxes  Pro Model: $US 6,199  Premium Model: $US 7,899  Limited Edition Model: $US 8,999  *Star Wars Pinball* is available through authorized Stern Pinball distributors and dealers around the world.  **About Stern Pinball, Inc.**  Stern Pinball, Inc., headquartered just outside Chicago, Illinois, is the oldest and largest producer of arcade-quality pinball games in the world. Stern Pinball’s highly talented creative and technical teams design, engineer and manufacture a full line of popular pinball games, merchandise and accessories. Recent Stern titles include Aerosmith, Batman, Ghostbusters, Game of Thrones, WWE WrestleMania, The Walking Dead, Mustang, Star Trek, Metallica, XMen,  AC/DC, Tron, Transformers, Avatar, and many more!  All of Stern Pinball’s games are crafted by hand and assembled by Stern Pinball’s expert team. A broad range of players enjoy Stern’s games from professional pinball players that compete in high-stakes international  competitions around the globe to novice players who are discovering the allure of the silver ball for the first time.  To join the fun and learn more, please visit: www.sternpinball.com or  www.facebook.com/sternpinball  STAR WARS and related properties are trademarks and/or copyrights, in the United States and other countries, of Lucasfilm Ltd. and/or its affiliates. © & TM Lucasfilm Ltd. |
