# Transcript: 2022-01-22_For Lyman.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-17 23:43  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 17:26

---

[00:00] Just like a child again, Heaven can wait, And all I got is time until end of time.

[00:14] Well I won't look back, I won't look back, Let the water shine.

[00:30] He was the greatest pinball coder of all time, one of the greatest pinball players of all

[00:40] time, one of the greatest people of all time, Mr. Lyman Sheets Jr. at just the age of 55

[00:50] passed away yesterday.

[00:51] And all of us out there in this community, when we heard the news, it was so sad, so

[00:58] probably the biggest loss in all of pinball that I've ever felt being a part of this hobby.

[01:04] And I wanted to do a quick podcast explaining why all of us out there and me personally have

[01:10] such an appreciation for Lyman Sheets Jr. and what he contributed to the pinball community,

[01:17] what he left behind with his legacy of games, which are arguably the best coded games ever.

[01:24] And I want to talk about this man's impact, I want to talk about the genius that was Lyman

[01:29] Sheets Jr. and then I want to leave us with a song and a little bit of a moment of silence

[01:34] before that song as we all reflect upon this man and his incredible contributions to pinball,

[01:40] because without him, pinball would not be what it is today. Without him, many of us probably

[01:47] wouldn't be where we are, because we never would have fallen in love with pinball the way we have.

[01:53] If it were not for Lyman Sheets Jr. And what was so sad about yesterday's news is he was only 55

[02:01] years old. I mean that is way too young to be taken from all of us, from his family, from his

[02:07] loved ones, from his passion, from his future. And as all of us get older and all of us stare down,

[02:13] the ultimate finality of life, we can't help but reflect on our own lives and our own journeys and

[02:20] how short and how precious life really is. And every day is a blessing and every day we're above

[02:26] ground is a blessing. And we really need to appreciate every single minute we have with each

[02:32] other, with these toys we love, but with the connections we've made with each other. And I

[02:38] don't think any man out there in the pinball world has made more people excited and connected more

[02:45] people than Lyman Sheets. I cover this industry on a weekly basis and I tell you what I love and

[02:52] what I don't love about pinball. And I don't think I've ever seen anything touched by Lyman Sheets

[02:58] that I didn't absolutely love. And that is the true genius of Lyman is we always had that phrase

[03:05] in Lyman we trust. And when you really break down what that means, it means that he had the

[03:11] mightest touch. Anything he touched in the pinball world got better. He never made anything worse.

[03:18] He never made anyone nervous. Whenever we knew that Lyman Sheets was going to work on a game,

[03:25] we knew that game was going to be great. And there is no other pinball coder out there. There is no

[03:32] other figure out there that we can say the same. And what Lyman put into these games and games like

[03:39] Metallica, AC DC, Spider-Man, Tron, Elvira, Batman 66, Medieval Madness, Revenge from Mars,

[03:51] Monster Bash. I mean the list goes on and on and on in terms of his accolades. And what he put into

[03:58] these games, it wasn't just sounds and lights and modes. He put soul into all of these games.

[04:08] And I've said it from the very beginning. These machines are an extension of the coder's personality.

[04:15] In a lot of ways Lyman Sheets gave us a little bit of him with every game he coded. But the genius

[04:22] of Lyman in a world that's getting very complex, right? In a world that's very hard to understand.

[04:28] I mean look at modern pinball machines. You stand over them and you have no idea what to do. And a

[04:34] lot of these new games, right? They're so overly complex. There's all these complex rulesets of stacking

[04:41] this and stacking that. It's like trying to figure out calculus to play a pinball machine.

[04:47] But what Lyman was always able to do, he was always able to make his games appealing to both the casual

[04:55] player who could walk up and play his games and have some stuff happen that was very rewarding.

[05:01] But he also knew how to make his games deep for the tournament players, for the better skill set

[05:07] players. And he knew how to make the game appealing to both the casual and the expert player. And it

[05:12] requires such genius talent to do that. I've always compared Lyman Sheets to sort of the conductor

[05:19] of an orchestra. That he's up there waving his hands and he's making the entire game come alive.

[05:25] He's bringing all of the different elements of a pinball machine to life. Remember because without

[05:31] code, a pinball machine is just a static item. Nothing is happening. The coder has to tell

[05:38] that light to go off or that call out to happen or that clip to appear on the screen or that

[05:44] mechanism to fire. All that has to be coded and it was all inside his head and he put it into each

[05:51] of his games in such a masterful way. And the other part about Lyman Sheets that I absolutely love,

[05:57] one of the greatest lessons he's leaving behind in the pinball world and for all of us in life

[06:04] is a very simple lesson. Is that when you want to make something great and you want to aim for

[06:10] perfection and you want to do something that will be remembered 10 years from now, 20 years from now,

[06:17] when you want to put your heart and soul into a project, it takes time. And in a world in which

[06:24] we're rushing to get games out, in a world in which we just want to get the next game on the line,

[06:30] Lyman Sheets knew that it would take time to make the games the right way. And it was kind of like

[06:36] that interesting battle between him and Stern all of those years where Stern just wanted to rush

[06:41] games out. But Lyman needed more than a year to make a game great. And we all love the fact that

[06:47] years down the road, right? Lyman wasn't just like the conductor of an orchestra. He was like the

[06:53] architect of a cathedral. And if you know the story of cathedrals out there in the world,

[06:58] they're never complete. They're always trying to get taller and taller as they reach towards the

[07:04] heavens. And that was like Lyman Sheets on code. He would always revisit it and make it just a little

[07:10] bit better, add a little bit more polish. He kept aiming to get that code to its heavenly state.

[07:15] And years could go by, right? He could revisit games years later and awaken them in new ways. And I

[07:21] saw him do it with games like Metallica and The Walking Dead. And I don't think I've ever heard

[07:28] anybody ever say a single bad word about Lyman Sheets Jr. And in a world in which everyone is

[07:35] hypercritical, myself included, in a world in which we try to find fault in everything because it

[07:41] makes it more entertaining. It makes for clickbait. It makes it more exciting to listen to someone say

[07:47] that's horrible versus that's great. Lyman Sheets, he unanimously and universally never had any

[07:53] complaints about what he put into games. Now, we might have complained that we had a wait and that

[07:58] was always something fun to see how long would it take for Lyman Sheets to finish a code. But man,

[08:03] when he finished a code, man, when he put everything into a game, when you look at a game like Batman

[08:08] 66 and what he did with all of those clips, you want to know why we don't like the monsters

[08:14] and will never love the monsters. It's because we played Batman 66 and he showed us what's possible

[08:22] in a pinball machine. And when you see what's possible and you experience a Lyman Sheets game,

[08:28] it's hard to go back and accept something else. You know, there are people out there who only

[08:34] collect Lyman Sheets games. And I've always said it, if you're going to collect pinball machines,

[08:39] I would collect Lyman Sheets games. And I fully expect people to realize that real soon that if

[08:45] you're going to spend a lot of money on stuff, don't just chase the latest, chase the greatest.

[08:50] And he was the greatest pinball coder ever. It is a horrible loss for the community. It's a horrible

[08:56] loss for pinball, for his family, for his friends, for everyone out there, 55 years old. I mean,

[09:03] he's only 10 years older than me. And it hits all of us in different ways. And I hope this week

[09:09] and everybody raises a glass to Lyman that we get into his unique stance, right, leaning over the

[09:15] machine and just play pinball and enjoy what he left us and what a legacy he has left behind.

[09:23] He will live on forever in these games. There will never be another coder like him. We will always

[09:28] wish that he coded everything. It's the truth deep down inside. If we had to pick the most

[09:33] valuable person in all of pinball, I can't think of someone more valuable than Lyman Sheets Jr.

[09:39] I used this analogy yesterday on my Facebook live that if you were choosing like your dodgeball teams,

[09:45] imagine if you wanted to make the greatest pinball machine of all time. And you had everyone lined

[09:50] up in the pinball industry, the best coders, the best designers, the best artists, and you had to

[09:55] make your first pick, your first pick out of the greatest talent in all of pinball. How do you not

[10:02] pick Lyman Sheets Jr. first? There are many great designers out there. There are many great artists

[10:09] out there, but there's only one Lyman and nobody can make a game the way Lyman Sheets Jr. did. For

[10:16] me personally, I'll never forget having dinner with Lyman and Penny and Brenda and this amazing,

[10:23] talented man. If it were me, I'd be bragging how good I am at pinball coding. He was so humble.

[10:29] You wouldn't even have known you're in the presence of someone who has created the greatest

[10:34] pinball machines. You wouldn't even know it. He would absolutely give off no indication

[10:39] of the amazing talent inside his head. And that's the most amazing part about Lyman is he's just

[10:45] so likeable. And everyone who came in contact with him felt that way. And we need more of that in the

[10:51] world today. We absolutely need more of that. And the reason why I say that so many of us probably

[10:56] wouldn't be in love with this hobby if it were not for Lyman Sheets Jr. is he made games fun.

[11:04] He made people happy. I don't think I've seen a single pinball personality that has added more

[11:10] happiness to this hobby than Lyman, right? I mean, who's owned his games out there? How happy are you

[11:16] with his titles, with his games and the ultimate skill set that he had, he could take a game that

[11:22] didn't even shoot well. Walking Dead, Batman 66 anyone, and he could make it amazing. And I love

[11:29] it today because as we look at games today, right, I'm thinking about these new spooky games and

[11:33] everyone's like, the code is going to make it better. The game's going to come alive. No, it's

[11:38] not because the whole reason why we look at games now and say, well, when the code's done, it's going

[11:43] to be awesome. No, that only happens when Lyman is on it. And I think he's spoiled so many of us

[11:49] by doing that. Like we've sort of ingrained in our heads that eventually a year from now, every bad

[11:55] game will get good because of code. That's never going to happen anymore, because the guy who did

[12:01] that was Lyman Sheets Jr. And he is the reason why we think code can save everything. But no, it can't.

[12:07] The only one that could save everything was Lyman. And he did it. And he did it time and time again.

[12:12] But he also had so many amazing games. And that is why we're going to miss him so much because I

[12:17] wanted 20 more years of Lyman Sheets games. I wanted to see what he was going to do with

[12:21] Cactus Canyon. I know PPS had big plans for Lyman to revisit all of the old classic Valley Williams

[12:29] games and add his touch to them. And now we're never going to see that. And that sucks. And I

[12:34] know we all just want to like punch the wall knowing that we're not going to have any more

[12:39] Lyman Sheets Jr. games. What we can do is jump on his machines and smile and enjoy what he gave

[12:47] us. The most soulful, the most passionate, and the most alive pinball experiences on planet earth.

[12:55] It's something to be said for that. This man put more soul into pinball than anybody. For those

[13:01] young designers and coders out there, you should play all of his games. You should study him

[13:07] relentlessly because he had it. And he had that intangible, right? He had that intangible thing

[13:13] that just made it all work. It just clicked. Everything he touched. He was able to assemble

[13:19] all of the parts of a game in a way that just worked. And there's really nothing else to say.

[13:25] And I'm doing this podcast for everybody. I know I've taken my show behind the Canada Club walls

[13:31] and I'm not coming back to the main airwaves. But I just wanted to do this for everybody because

[13:36] how I feel about Lyman, I wanted to share with all of you, not just the club members, okay? Now,

[13:41] I want to take a 30-second moment of silence for Lyman Sheets. Raise a glass, close your eyes,

[13:48] think about the man in his family and all he gave us. And then I want to play a complete song

[13:53] that just captures how I feel about Lyman and his contribution to pinball. That he really created a

[13:59] chain reaction that went through the entire pinball hobby and will always go through the entire

[14:05] pinball hobby. And he's united more of us and brought more of us joy than any figure in pinball.

[14:12] Lyman, we're going to miss you. We love you. And we'll see you on the other side, brother.

[15:05] You made it happen.

[15:35] And I thank you for what you've done.

[15:40] And I thank you for what you've done.

[15:47] You spread a hopeful feeling of golden meaning through a shadow and to the sun.

[15:57] You spread a hopeful feeling of golden meaning through a shadow and to the sun.

[16:09] And that happy little morning comes.

[16:15] And that happy little morning comes.

[16:19] And I thank you for what you've done.

[16:24] And I thank you for what you've done.

[16:28] And I thank you for what you've done.

[16:44] And the heart of evil is a want for healing.

[16:50] Dream of many peace alone.

[16:55] And the heart of evil is a want for healing.

[17:01] Dream of many peace alone.

[17:15] And I thank you for what you've done.

[17:21] And I thank you for what you've done
