# Transcript: 2024-02-26_2.24 Saturday Morning Spectacular You're Welcome.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-18 03:44  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 1:18:27

---

[00:00] What can I say except you're welcome for the tides, the sun, the sky.

[00:07] Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome.

[00:11] I'm just an ordinary, daily guy.

[00:13] Cedar, cedar, cedar, cedar, cedar, cedar, cedar.

[00:18] Who we got in the house here?

[00:19] We got Ryan, we got Jengiz, we got Eric, Christopher, Larry, Dan, Jay, Patrick, Conti,

[00:29] All right, let's talk pinball.

[00:33] Let's talk about what we think we're going to see tonight.

[00:35] We're going to talk about everything.

[00:37] You know, this week went from being, you know, it's just another week, Princess Bride.

[00:43] We've got stern rumors to discuss and deconstruct.

[00:47] We've got pulp fictions making its way out the door.

[00:50] We've got spooky pinball loony tunes in Texas Chainsaw Massacre.

[00:54] We've got pinball mods all over the place.

[00:57] No one knows why we're gluing bunch of tacky stuff to every single game.

[01:01] It's getting out of hand.

[01:02] We're going to talk about that.

[01:04] We're going to talk about, you know, the fact that TPF is right around the corner, it's

[01:09] just what, like three weeks away.

[01:13] What kind of show is it going to be?

[01:15] Is it going to be underwhelming?

[01:17] Is it going to be worth the trip?

[01:20] You know me, I can't go this year.

[01:22] I've got a big St. Patrick's Day party with Colin Joust and Michael Shea from Saturday

[01:30] Night Live.

[01:31] We're doing it Saturday, March 16th, right?

[01:37] So Texas Pinball Festival is Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and no Twippies means no Canada.

[01:44] Sorry, that's just, you know, it all kind of worked out.

[01:47] Like in some random, random roundabout way, right?

[01:53] This week in pinball is selling itself to a buffoon and destroying the award show has

[02:01] absolutely made it a perfect scenario for me.

[02:05] So it all works out in the end.

[02:07] It all works out in the end.

[02:09] Let's talk pinball people.

[02:11] All right, let's start out.

[02:14] Let's start out.

[02:16] Let's start out with Spooky Pinball because, okay, so first and foremost, there is a rumor

[02:21] going around.

[02:23] There is a rumor going around people that Spooky Pinball has the Sonic the Hedgehog license.

[02:33] It's not American Pinball.

[02:37] It's not Stern Pinball because remember David Fix said that they did not get the license

[02:43] to Sonic and it wasn't Stern who took the license.

[02:48] So if this rumor is true and Spooky Pinball has Sonic the Hedgehog, I mean, all of a sudden

[03:01] it gets really interesting.

[03:03] I think Sonic is a great theme for pinball.

[03:08] You got to have a loop-de-loop.

[03:09] You got to have gold coin spinners.

[03:11] You got to have some mechs in a Sonic game, but you really need the loop-de-loop.

[03:18] You've got to have a ball that loads.

[03:20] When the ball loads in the auto plunger, it needs the loop-de-loop into play.

[03:25] That needs to happen.

[03:27] So I think Spooky, Sonic the Hedgehog, all of you know, I got to be honest.

[03:37] The last two years of Themes Gang have been pretty terrible.

[03:43] And I think going through like two years of themes that didn't really hit on what people

[03:48] want, Sonic doesn't sound like a Spooky theme, but Looney Tunes does.

[03:56] Huh?

[03:57] Come on guys.

[03:58] Rick and Morty does.

[04:01] Spooky Pinball is not going to only do Spooky themed games.

[04:05] They want to make money.

[04:10] So you're sure it's not P3 multi-morphic that has Sonic?

[04:15] I don't want it to be multi-morphic P3 Sonic.

[04:18] I'll tell you why, because you can't relegate only mechs in the top half of the game for

[04:28] Sonic.

[04:29] Sonic needs to have a lot more back and forth.

[04:31] I mean, Sonic's got it, right?

[04:33] Even when you play Sonic, the video game, he balances back and forth between pop bumpers

[04:39] in the video game.

[04:40] It is totally set up for a pinball experience.

[04:44] And he spins into a ball.

[04:47] I mean, that is the game.

[04:49] He spins into a blue ball and is going through the map like it's a pinball machine.

[04:56] Ah, now look.

[04:58] Look here's the deal.

[05:00] Here's the deal.

[05:01] Talk about Looney Tunes first.

[05:03] So I watched the Looney Tunes stream again, and I saw them playing the game again.

[05:10] I really like the way it really feels like you're playing the iconic Looney Tunes episodes.

[05:17] But there's a big issue I have with the game.

[05:20] I think other people are going to feel this way, because I think there's something like

[05:24] 20 iconic Looney Tunes episodes that you can play.

[05:31] Spooky, Luke, spooky, bug.

[05:36] Listen to me.

[05:37] Listen to me.

[05:40] Don't make it random.

[05:42] I know that's currently how it's structured.

[05:46] Don't randomize the 20 episodes.

[05:50] Rick and Morty made sense to be random, because when they opened up portals, they didn't know

[05:55] where they were going.

[05:56] Rick's adventures, Rick and Morty's adventures were always randomized.

[06:01] But I think it's going to be more frustrating and fun if you can't select the episodes

[06:07] you want to play and you're just randomly throwing stuff at people.

[06:12] So it's not too late to change this.

[06:14] You don't have all of them in there yet.

[06:16] I also think by making them more selectable, you actually feel like you're progressing

[06:22] through the game more, because you should hold some of them to be like some of the better

[06:26] ones should maybe be unlockable as you get through the game, but not available right

[06:32] away.

[06:33] And, you know, that's Batman 66.

[06:36] The reason I love that game so much is, is like, you get to choose, you know, how you

[06:43] want to go through the different seasons and how you want to go through the different

[06:47] villains and minor villains.

[06:49] And that's what makes the game so fun is like, yeah, you've got like, you know, your, your,

[06:54] your four villain modes that you're probably going to see right away.

[06:58] But then as you unlock like different seasons, as you get into like different mini wizard

[07:03] modes, that's ostensibly, you know, unlocking different episodes, if you will, from Batman

[07:10] 66.

[07:11] So I think spooky should not make it random.

[07:14] I think that's going to be unrewarding.

[07:17] And I know why they're probably doing it.

[07:18] They're like, well, we've got 20 episodes and we want to make sure that everybody experiences

[07:23] the game.

[07:24] And I'm telling you, spooky, if you make it random, people are going to see the game

[07:28] too soon.

[07:29] They're going to experience too much of what's in the game right away.

[07:33] And they're going to end up like moving the game on from their collection.

[07:37] But you always want to leave some stuff at the end of a journey that's not always easy

[07:43] to get to.

[07:44] I mean, that's what makes a game have replay value.

[07:48] That's what makes a game stay in people's collections.

[07:52] I agree.

[07:53] Like Lyman sheets showed everybody how to do this stuff.

[07:56] I think every coder and software engineer should be spending nothing but time on Lyman

[08:02] sheet games and absolutely just mirroring what he did and how he thought about pinball

[08:08] and pinball progression because it's perfect and it's perfectly balanced for scoring.

[08:14] And when you get to the end of satisfying moments in a Lyman game, your score is also blown

[08:19] up.

[08:20] So he knew exactly how to do that.

[08:23] So that's just my advice, spooky.

[08:27] Randomize it.

[08:28] Randomizing it is a mistake.

[08:30] Let people select what episodes they want to play and figure out how to do that.

[08:35] Okay.

[08:36] All right.

[08:37] Now the games are going out, which is nice to see.

[08:40] I think a lot of people are going to get time on this thing at TPF and we'll get feedback

[08:46] from this game from people who actually played it.

[08:50] The games are still not sold out.

[08:52] And I think that's an interesting testament to where we are in pinball.

[08:56] There's just, I think people have just seen too many people take a hit on Scooby-Doo

[09:01] prices, too many people have taken a hit on all these stern L.E.s.

[09:07] And a fully loaded spooky game is around.

[09:09] I think people keep, we keep talking about this in my Patreon chat.

[09:14] It's about $11,600 with a butter cabinet before any shipping or taxing is included.

[09:21] So it's not cheap.

[09:23] It's not cheap.

[09:26] So all right.

[09:28] So spooky pinball, getting games out, delivering what they said they would deliver.

[09:35] Ben Heck jumped into the stream the other day.

[09:39] I think he came here last week and he's not Ben Heck.

[09:42] Hilton, why is it snow?

[09:43] Hilton came in here and said, anyone guessing what the next spooky themes are?

[09:50] He knows what the next three are.

[09:51] And he said he's beyond excited.

[09:54] He's stuff like that, stuff like that works for and against the company.

[09:58] Like I'm really excited to see what Hilton's talking about.

[10:02] Maybe one of them is Sonic the Hedgehog, but it also now makes it easier to wait on Looney

[10:07] Toon and Texas Chainsaw because, you know, for a lot of you out there, is Looney Toon's

[10:13] a dream theme?

[10:14] There's going to be 880 of them in the world or 888.

[10:19] Most of them are going to be ordered as collector's editions.

[10:22] They're not going to have a hard time getting one.

[10:25] And it's just, that's just going to be the new reality with so many companies making

[10:30] games and so much product in the marketplace.

[10:33] Securing any of these games is not going to be difficult.

[10:37] I mean, you can still get a Jaws Elite today for $12,999 from Automated Services.

[10:42] I saw Mike still got them listed for sale.

[10:45] Jay, hello from Argentina, brother.

[10:51] Well, you know, I wouldn't start getting people excited about what Spooky has down

[10:56] the pipeline when they just started making these current games.

[11:00] So, you know, but again, I think we're at a point now, everybody, where it's going to

[11:06] be, it's going to be really competitive in the pinball space because I've been hearing

[11:12] some things, good things.

[11:15] So let's go from Spooky.

[11:20] Let's mix it up a little bit.

[11:21] Let's randomize how we talk about these companies.

[11:22] Let's go from Spooky to Jersey Jack.

[11:24] All right.

[11:25] So I've been hearing from people that know people inside at JJP.

[11:31] And what I'm hearing is good news.

[11:34] The good news is this, is that the post-Pat Lawler error of Jersey Jack pinball is really

[11:40] going to turn the corner on the culture, on the vibe, on the games, and on everything.

[11:48] I think Pat Lawler, you'll never really know the truth people, but Pat Lawler really did

[11:55] derail a positive company culture of collaboration, of creative idea sharing.

[12:04] He was not a nice man to have running that company.

[12:09] There's a reason why they called him Lord Lawler.

[12:12] I don't think he was like a great mentor to people like Eric.

[12:16] I don't even think he helped out.

[12:19] I think it was all about him.

[12:20] And I think he delivered, when you look at his portfolio with Jersey Jack, Pat Lawler

[12:26] delivered three games that were underwhelming in terms of their sales and their reception

[12:32] by the pinball community.

[12:34] And he never really made a hit.

[12:37] He didn't have a hit game.

[12:39] And Jack Guinari invested so much in Pat Lawler, paid him X amount of millions of dollars

[12:46] or whatever, and Pat never really delivered.

[12:50] He took forever to get dialed in out the door.

[12:53] He took forever to get Willy Wonka out the door.

[12:56] It was just a series of delays and the games, and look at the games.

[13:02] None of them really had an original idea.

[13:05] None of them had a wow mech that we hadn't seen before.

[13:09] Nothing he really developed was worth it.

[13:13] That's the past.

[13:16] Jersey Jack's future.

[13:18] Elton John is the beginning of the future of Jersey Jack.

[13:23] Elton John is.

[13:24] Pat Lawler still had his hand in on Godfather, and obviously Toy Story 4 because he made

[13:30] it.

[13:31] And I think we're seeing a new Jersey Jack.

[13:34] I think Elton John is the beginning of a new era in Jersey Jack pinball.

[13:39] I think having Lawler out of there is going to free up that company to feel more liberated,

[13:46] more creative, more collaborative.

[13:48] I think the vibes are going to be better.

[13:50] I think the results are going to be better.

[13:53] And I think the themes are going to be better.

[13:54] I think the executions are going to be better.

[13:56] I think everything about Jersey Jack's future right now feels really good.

[14:00] It feels really positive.

[14:02] And I think what's going to happen at T.P.F., more people are going to play Elton John and

[14:07] realize that I'm right.

[14:08] It is an amazing pinball machine.

[14:11] It is not one to overlook.

[14:14] It is not one to write off.

[14:17] It is still overpriced in my opinion.

[14:20] These things are all overpriced.

[14:21] It's a very expensive proposition.

[14:25] I really think Elton John at 9,500 for an LE and 12,500 for a CE is selling like hotcakes.

[14:33] I think at 12 and 15, it's not enough of a dream theme to make people pull the trigger

[14:39] right now.

[14:40] And that is not an indictment of the game.

[14:43] It is an indictment of the theme's popularity in the community and the hobby we're a part

[14:48] of.

[14:49] And I've always said that.

[14:51] Sometimes people try to say, oh, he's flip flopping on Elton John.

[14:53] I'm not.

[14:55] I still think it's overpriced.

[14:56] I still think it's not worth the money.

[14:59] I still think it's a great game.

[15:01] That's what I've always been saying.

[15:03] I don't have any like FOMO to buy it right now.

[15:06] There is no way that Elton John, unless they say we're only making one run of it, there's

[15:12] no way unless they pire to the Caribbean.

[15:15] There's no way this game is going to be hard to get ever.

[15:20] And I think we're all on the same boat with this.

[15:21] And I don't think it's a negative.

[15:23] I don't think it's like me trying to like be unfair.

[15:26] And I don't think I'd have, you know, people watching this every week or over 800 club members

[15:32] on Patreon.

[15:33] I don't think I'd have any of that if I was imbalanced and unfair and not calling it like

[15:39] it was.

[15:41] So Jersey Jack, really good things.

[15:43] I don't think we're going to see Jersey Jack's game until like the winter.

[15:46] So I think we're going to see a slow burn of Elton.

[15:51] Whatever they have next is going to be, you know, I don't think it's until like July,

[15:56] August the earliest.

[15:59] So that's Jersey Jack.

[16:00] I think they're just going to have a, you know, a little bit of an Elton John half the

[16:04] year.

[16:05] All right.

[16:06] What else is going on in the world of pinball that we want to talk about?

[16:10] So I put up the posts about we have so many pinball companies and some of them are most

[16:17] likely going to fail in 2024.

[16:20] Well Chad, Harry Potter, clearly Jersey Jack has it.

[16:26] Joe Kamnikau, Kamnikau's posts about it is, I think, right.

[16:33] You turner pinball.

[16:35] Well, Turner pinball can't go out of business because Turner pinball is not even in business.

[16:41] They are not going to sell any of those games.

[16:44] You know, when I say like there's going to be some companies that go under, you can't

[16:49] go under if you never even got up.

[16:52] So I don't think Turner pinball is like a real pinball company.

[16:56] I don't think that, um, look, we've got, what was it?

[17:03] Pinball Adventures is another one.

[17:04] Like they're done.

[17:05] They're not selling games.

[17:07] Andrew McBain knows that.

[17:08] He's not, he's, there's no way forward.

[17:11] Home pin is done.

[17:12] Nobody's buying Spinal Tap.

[17:13] There's no game after the Spinal Tap coming out.

[17:18] It doesn't matter though.

[17:20] Nobody's buying Turner pinball's Ninja Clips.

[17:23] Like it doesn't matter.

[17:24] And that's that whole thing is just a design study game so they can learn how to manufacture.

[17:30] There's just no way.

[17:31] And also like there's no way they have a path forward to manufacturing.

[17:35] You know what I'm saying?

[17:36] Like I get that, you know, three to five guys could sit in a studio and prototype a game.

[17:42] That's one thing, but to actually make, take orders and manufacture is another thing.

[17:48] Where's Joe Balser working these days?

[17:50] Not Joe Balser.

[17:51] Joe Balser.

[17:53] I don't think Joe's anywhere.

[17:55] The last I heard, whoa, whoa, he was dabbling with home pin a little bit.

[18:01] We don't need Joe Balser back in pinball.

[18:04] And it's nothing personal against Joe Balser.

[18:06] I don't think we need Dennis Nordman back in pinball.

[18:10] I don't look gang.

[18:13] I think we need New Young Town in pinball.

[18:15] I don't think we need a Barrio game.

[18:18] I just think we need New Young Town in pinball.

[18:22] I think the old guard that's had so many years to make a hit game, Joe Balser had a company

[18:29] at his disposal.

[18:30] He had American pinball at his disposal and he never made a hit game.

[18:37] The thing is this about Steve Ritchie.

[18:41] And even though Elton John is borrowing elements from each of his different games, it's an

[18:47] amazing design.

[18:50] I mean, it's really hard to hate on what Steve Ritchie did with Elton John.

[18:55] Will we ever see Whitewater 2?

[18:57] I hope not.

[18:59] I don't want to see Whitewater 2.

[19:02] And most of the pinball buying public does not want to see Whitewater 2.

[19:06] It is a niche within a niche within a niche.

[19:10] And what I mean by that is like, it's an old game.

[19:13] You're in a niche already.

[19:14] You're not part of the new pinball excitement.

[19:16] You're not a modern, you're not a theme that has real energy around it.

[19:22] It's only got nostalgia value to diehard pinheads, not outside of that.

[19:27] Then it's like, oh, you have to be like a Dennis Nordman fan to really want that.

[19:32] That's not a large enough audience.

[19:34] Look what it did for Galactic Tank Force.

[19:37] And then it's an unlicensed theme in a world of the greatest pinball licenses are coming

[19:42] out over the next two years and it's not going to work.

[19:47] I don't care if Bolster had his hands tied.

[19:50] I don't care.

[19:52] I don't really care, Dan.

[19:53] It's like, you are what you are.

[19:57] I think that we need new young talent.

[20:00] I would rather have Jack Danger than Dennis Nordman right now.

[20:06] And that's just how I feel.

[20:07] I feel like Jack Danger is trying to make a name for himself in the pinball design world.

[20:13] And I feel like Dennis Nordman is just going to go back and recycle what he's done before.

[20:19] Look, Dennis Nordman had his shot.

[20:22] He had American pinball.

[20:25] He made Galactic Tank Force.

[20:27] They put marketing behind it.

[20:29] They put development behind it.

[20:32] And the fact that nobody stood over that game and was like, this is not going to work, man.

[20:38] This is not going to sell.

[20:40] This is too hokey.

[20:42] The game's not there.

[20:43] The magic's not there.

[20:45] Everything about it.

[20:46] It was executed so poorly from A to Z.

[20:50] And so he had his shot.

[20:52] It's like he got tossed the mic at a karaoke outing and he didn't hit a single note and he'd get booed off stage.

[20:59] And that is what Galactic Tank Force is.

[21:02] Look, and Dennis being where Dennis is right now, you can't afford to have a miss.

[21:08] You can't afford to have a flop.

[21:10] Like, you know, you're only as good as your last game.

[21:13] Nobody cares that you sold games 40 years ago.

[21:17] And nowadays, like, what is it?

[21:20] You know, and also back then, those games were not huge sellers.

[21:24] It's a decent game.

[21:26] See, the problem with American pinball, and let's talk about it,

[21:31] is David Ficks doesn't know what a good game is.

[21:34] And he's leading the company.

[21:36] So the Barrio game is going to be a barbecue game.

[21:40] All right, so you got this barbecue game that nobody wants,

[21:44] and he thinks that barbecue restaurants are going to order them up.

[21:48] And so what?

[21:49] And it comes out, and I heard their new boards they're making aren't ready yet.

[21:55] So they're still prototyping their new board set.

[21:58] I think they're going to be made in India.

[22:01] And so they have an unproven board set.

[22:04] They're going to make a game nobody wants.

[22:06] And they're going to release it right as people are paying for pulp fictions

[22:10] and jauses and looney tunes and Texas Chainsaw Massacre.

[22:14] You know, right as all this other stuff, Princess Bride,

[22:16] all these licensed games are out in the world.

[22:19] And now what do you got, a barbecue game?

[22:22] Maurice is not going to save these guys.

[22:25] And also, like, American pinball gang, they just,

[22:29] they're sort of becoming like the joke of the industry.

[22:32] And when I see pictures of, like, Fix, Maurice, and Steve Bowden,

[22:37] I mean, if that's the executive board over at the company,

[22:39] and was Vishal or Mukesh's son or cousin or nephew,

[22:44] I don't know, like, their relation,

[22:46] they don't look like they know what they're doing.

[22:49] And I just, I just don't get it.

[22:55] I don't get it.

[22:56] And look, we're three weeks away from them unveiling this game

[23:01] at Texas Pinball Festival.

[23:02] And I'm telling you right now, this game is going to go down

[23:06] with even less enthusiasm than dialed in.

[23:10] It's going to be crickets in the room at Texas Pinball Festival

[23:15] when this game gets unveiled.

[23:18] It's another reason why I'm not going to TPF.

[23:22] Spooky Luke, you missed the spooky part.

[23:24] You can't make the modes and looney tunes random.

[23:28] You got to give the players options

[23:31] to choose the episodes they want to watch.

[23:34] You have plenty of time to implement that down the road.

[23:38] Don't make it random.

[23:40] Don't.

[23:41] I know you want people to see, like, all of the game, you know?

[23:44] But don't do that, because then after, like, 30 plays,

[23:48] people are going to see everything.

[23:51] All right?

[23:52] Trust me on this, bug.

[23:54] Trust me.

[23:57] Yeah, remember David Fixer, they got 3,000 orders for,

[24:01] what was it, Legends of a Hala?

[24:04] Just so funny.

[24:07] Look, I think American Pinball, I

[24:11] think David Fixer's one more game before Mukesh just

[24:15] says, we're done here.

[24:17] And I think they were trying to sell the company a few times.

[24:21] I think that nobody wanted to buy it.

[24:24] And I think those rumors were accurate.

[24:28] I enjoy Legends of a Hala.

[24:32] There's nothing wrong with Legends of a Hala.

[24:33] There's just nothing great with it either.

[24:35] Like, I don't know, gang, like, default in Pinball is like,

[24:38] it's a toy.

[24:39] Of course, it's fun.

[24:42] Let's do it, Spooky Luke.

[24:45] Let's do it.

[24:47] Try it out.

[24:48] Try it both ways.

[24:50] Spooky Luke, trust me, Batman 66, you select.

[24:55] You select your journey.

[24:57] It makes it so much more rewarding.

[24:59] So you can choose your own adventure

[25:02] and you can make the game work for you

[25:05] instead of randomly having to play the game that the game's

[25:09] throwing at you.

[25:12] Don't give him advice, John.

[25:13] I just gave him that advice.

[25:15] Your advice is no better than that.

[25:17] John, you know, we said the same thing.

[25:18] I just said it like this and you said it like this.

[25:23] So tonight, we get to see The Princess Bride.

[25:28] 8 o'clock Eastern Standard Time.

[25:33] I am going to hopefully live stream it here for a little bit

[25:37] so you can watch me watching them stream the game

[25:40] for the first time.

[25:41] I will be in the game.

[25:44] I will be in the chat.

[25:49] It is also date night with me and Brenda.

[25:52] It is also Killian's birthday on Monday.

[25:55] So we are setting up some balloons for Killian on.

[26:01] John, I'll send you the invite.

[26:02] I'm not sure you can make it.

[26:03] You might be at work.

[26:04] But we're doing a little get together at the apartment.

[26:08] So I am going to watch it and try to be positive about it.

[26:14] Well, you guys, whenever I enter a Twitch stream

[26:18] in which a company's game is being played for the first time,

[26:22] I'm always very positive.

[26:23] I know the team on that is it worked hard on making the game.

[26:28] And I'm not there to crap on it.

[26:30] If I want to crap on it, I won't do it on the Twitch stream.

[26:34] I also don't want to get moderated or booted

[26:36] from the stream itself.

[26:39] Look, I'm excited to see the first ever movie translated

[26:43] onto the Multimorphic platform.

[26:45] I think from the little bit we've seen,

[26:48] we're really going to feel like we're in those moments.

[26:52] And unlike, gang, this is what's interesting.

[26:55] Unlike Looney Tunes, where you might be missing a lot

[27:00] of the episode because you're busy flipping, right?

[27:03] You're busy looking below the glass.

[27:07] I think what's interesting about Multimorphic,

[27:09] from what we've seen, is you're not going to miss anything.

[27:12] Because I think all those clips are going

[27:15] to be taking place on the play field dynamically

[27:19] as you're playing through the game.

[27:22] And none of us have experienced a pinball experience

[27:25] like that ever before.

[27:28] So maybe this is going to do something really interesting

[27:31] for our, maybe there's going to be a newfound belief

[27:36] in this platform after we see how it, how it trans,

[27:39] how it transpholds.

[27:42] Transpholds, I think transpires is the word I was looking

[27:45] for, transphold.

[27:45] Is transpholds?

[27:47] Is that a word even?

[27:48] I don't even know.

[27:49] Sounds all right.

[27:53] Jerry made a big mistake with the collector's edition.

[27:55] It's not selling.

[27:56] It's stupid.

[27:57] He should have just done the Ellie.

[28:00] Nobody's going to go $500, sorry, in on a 500 unit, 1375 game.

[28:07] And everyone who loves multi-morphic to date can't buy it.

[28:11] Everybody who loves multi-morphic to date that has a multi-morphic

[28:16] can't upgrade to the collector's edition.

[28:18] That was the stupidest move I've ever seen, maybe

[28:21] in the history of pinball marketing.

[28:23] The reason why it's the stupidest move in the history

[28:25] of pinball marketing is you always

[28:28] want to take care of your most loyal customers.

[28:32] And he made it so his most loyal customers

[28:34] can't buy the nicest version of his most impressive game

[28:38] to date.

[28:39] Jerry, that's boneheaded move.

[28:41] I don't know who you were trying to do.

[28:44] I know what you're trying to do.

[28:46] You're like, oh, we're going to get new customers

[28:48] with this package only they can get.

[28:51] And Jerry, Jerry, you're not selling 1200 princess brides.

[28:55] You're not.

[28:55] You're not even going to come close to selling 1200 of these,

[28:58] bro.

[29:00] It's a fun, campy theme, but it's not a take my money now.

[29:04] Theme for most.

[29:05] It's also really expensive, brother.

[29:07] Your games are more money than Sternell E's.

[29:10] Your games more money than an Elton John Platinum, bro.

[29:13] And you've got to make sure the people that would have bought

[29:16] the CE package are your existing owners.

[29:22] I don't know.

[29:23] The whole thing is weird.

[29:24] Now you're going to be able to have a princess bride cabinet

[29:27] and play cosmic kart racing inside it.

[29:30] That's going to look so stupid.

[29:35] The old cab can't support the CE add-ons

[29:37] until it's upgraded to the new standard.

[29:40] I don't even know what that means, Matthew.

[29:43] So what the hell was the point?

[29:46] What the hell was the point?

[29:49] Elton John is the biggest surprise I've experienced

[29:52] in the hobby.

[29:53] John, are you more surprised by that than Turner pinball?

[30:00] How many jackets does your son have?

[30:01] You guys have seen his jackets?

[30:03] Look at that.

[30:05] But look at where his dad is at.

[30:07] Look at that.

[30:08] Boom, boom, like father like son.

[30:13] I mean, they're all, I mean, look,

[30:15] it's he's got a couple of bomber jackets.

[30:17] He's got a camo jacket.

[30:19] He's got a couple of winter jackets, a black winter jacket,

[30:21] raincoat.

[30:23] The rest of those are like vests.

[30:25] You know, when you're a little kid, it's like, you got to,

[30:27] every 5, 10 degrees is a different jacket.

[30:30] It's a different jacket.

[30:34] There we go.

[30:35] What about the woman's panties on the pinball,

[30:38] on the pinball floor?

[30:40] What are you talking about, Bill?

[30:43] The birthday party theme is, so he loves Lion King.

[30:46] So the theme is, I just can't wait to be three.

[30:52] So well done.

[30:53] Brenda's got all this stuff planned.

[30:55] I got the cake coming.

[30:58] Your row of jackets is probably worth more than my house.

[31:03] I hope not, Albert.

[31:07] I have Jaws in Elton John.

[31:09] I play Jaws, Ellie Moore.

[31:10] So Kelly, it's interesting.

[31:13] Kelly, why do you play Jaws more?

[31:19] Do you want to join the show, Kelly, and tell us why you play

[31:22] Jaws more than Elton John and what your feelings are?

[31:24] It might be easier than just watching you type.

[31:30] Thank you, Kevin.

[31:30] My brother made that 80s mix.

[31:32] It's been like a Canada classic.

[31:33] Like, that mix has been around for years.

[31:36] It'll never get old.

[31:38] It's really a lot of fun.

[31:41] Brenda is amazing.

[31:42] She is, like, the best mama.

[31:44] An Irish mom?

[31:45] To have an authentic Irish mom as your mother for your entire

[31:50] life is the best.

[31:53] Well, look, David likes Elton more.

[31:55] Kelly likes Jaws more.

[31:57] You know, look, everyone's getting different strokes

[31:59] for different folks.

[32:02] It's only worth it, Albert, when you sell it.

[32:05] If I had a dollar for all my friends who have been bragging

[32:08] to me about how much money their homes went up in value.

[32:12] And I'm like, cool.

[32:15] Are you moving anytime soon?

[32:16] They're like, no.

[32:18] So I'm like, so you don't have the money.

[32:21] The only time they're going to have the money is when they

[32:23] sell their house.

[32:24] The problem is, if you sell your house, where are you going to

[32:27] go?

[32:28] If you want to get a comparable house in the same

[32:31] neighborhood, you're not going to make a penny because you're

[32:33] going to have to pay that much or more.

[32:36] Where even though I don't have a house yet, I'm making money

[32:40] off of my portfolio, like real money going back in.

[32:43] Like, it's liquid.

[32:46] It's just funny to me.

[32:47] Like, everyone, you know, America is like, my house is

[32:51] the main part of my net worth.

[32:53] It's not supposed to be that way.

[32:56] You're not supposed to only have your house be your major

[33:00] net worth item.

[33:02] Because your house does not create any cash flow.

[33:06] It only creates cash flow the day you sell.

[33:11] So I don't know.

[33:13] You can't enjoy life as your house goes up in value unless

[33:18] you're borrowing against the equity of it.

[33:22] I don't know.

[33:23] I study finances.

[33:24] I got a bunch of advisors.

[33:28] It's just weird to me how everyone always uses the

[33:32] house flex on me.

[33:33] They use it all the time.

[33:34] I live in a one bedroom.

[33:36] I'm renting out the place next door.

[33:41] But I have tremendous monthly cash flow.

[33:44] And that's why I'm happy.

[33:46] It's why I use that to invest.

[33:49] One of my paychecks goes into investments every month.

[33:52] No, I'm not picking individual stocks.

[33:54] I'm basically buying funds, like index funds.

[33:59] One of my paychecks and then the other paycheck goes for my

[34:03] cost of living and goes for anything else, like eating

[34:09] out and buying pinball machines and spoiling my wife.

[34:13] But that way every month I know that I am not going to go

[34:18] into the red because I'm not going to spend more than I

[34:21] make each month.

[34:23] And I'm also putting money aside each month because I want

[34:27] to retire a multimillionaire.

[34:30] You see what I'm saying?

[34:32] I want to retire a multimillionaire.

[34:36] Bill, I've never used credit cards.

[34:40] If I did use a credit card, it's just for the points.

[34:42] But I've never gone into any debt buying a pinball machine

[34:45] or article of clothing or going on a

[34:47] vacation or a car.

[34:51] I'm guessing you have $200K if you plan on putting it

[34:53] down on a $2M crib.

[34:57] Well, Jacob, you know that a $2M house is a $400K deposit.

[35:03] You know that, right?

[35:06] So where are you guys living?

[35:08] It's not 10% down.

[35:10] It's 20% down where I'm living.

[35:13] Is it 10% where you guys are living?

[35:16] So to get a mortgage, you're looking at at least 20% down.

[35:21] Anyway.

[35:22] All right, so let's talk pinball.

[35:23] So are you guys going to be watching The Princess Bride

[35:28] tonight?

[35:30] And yes, I have more than $200,000 saved up.

[35:35] I don't think anybody should be buying pinball machines

[35:38] if you don't have at least $200,000 saved up.

[35:43] Unless you're in your 20s, I get it.

[35:46] But I don't think you should be buying $10,000 to $15,000

[35:49] pinball machines if $200K is what your nest day is.

[35:57] What's the point if you're not in the house until you're 60?

[36:03] Well, I'll be in the house this year.

[36:06] I'm not going to be 60.

[36:09] Yeah, I mean, I think the multi-morphic platform gang

[36:12] is still going to be still going to be,

[36:18] it's still going to be questionable whether or not

[36:21] people are going to invest in it.

[36:24] You know, the most important parts of family gang,

[36:30] everyone is happy and healthy.

[36:33] There's this notion that, and I'm going to go off a little bit.

[36:38] And Bill, this is not about economics.

[36:39] It's about life.

[36:40] My observations is I grew up and I

[36:44] went to some private schools here and there.

[36:46] My parents gave me the best education money could buy.

[36:49] I had friends that were broke, friends that were loaded,

[36:53] friends that were billionaires, friends that were,

[36:55] like when we went to boarding school,

[36:56] heck, some of the kids, they were from royalty,

[36:59] like Saudi Arabian royalty coming over.

[37:02] The king of Hussein's kid was in my boarding school with me

[37:06] from Jordan.

[37:08] The CEO of Korean Airlines kid was in my boarding school

[37:13] who tried to burn the dorm down because he

[37:16] had so many issues, like mentally.

[37:19] I've seen everything in life, gang.

[37:21] And ultimately, ultimately, it doesn't matter how much money

[37:25] you have.

[37:25] It doesn't matter how important you think you are.

[37:28] If you don't have your health, health is wealth.

[37:31] If you don't feel good, if your health is not there,

[37:33] nothing matters.

[37:33] So first and foremost, as long as we're all healthy and happy,

[37:37] that is the most important thing in life.

[37:39] Bar none.

[37:40] Bar none.

[37:41] If you're waking up in a good mood,

[37:43] you're succeeding in this planet.

[37:45] You absolutely are.

[37:46] And it's harder than ever to do that

[37:48] as a world in which all the content coming at you

[37:51] is trying to make you feel consistently inadequate.

[37:54] Like, look at my Lamborghini.

[37:55] Look at my watches.

[37:56] Look at this.

[37:57] That's all that gets thrown to my way through Facebook,

[38:00] like stories and reels.

[38:02] And look, all these people that are influencers and uploading

[38:08] how great their lives are, they're lying.

[38:11] They're in therapy.

[38:12] They're popping pills every day to deal with their anxiety.

[38:16] So all that is fake.

[38:19] It's fake.

[38:20] So I really subscribe to this notion

[38:23] of living a rich life is what all of us should aim for.

[38:27] And that doesn't mean just having tons of money.

[38:31] What living a rich life means is you can wake up every day

[38:35] and live life on your terms and have the things surrounding

[38:40] you that you value.

[38:43] And to us, it's pinball machines.

[38:44] So a lot of us like pinball machines

[38:46] are the things we value.

[38:47] So we want to be able to be surrounded by these things,

[38:52] both the people who love it and also the products themselves.

[38:55] Because think about it, gang.

[38:56] If I gave each of you $100,000 tomorrow,

[39:00] are you going to go buy a gold Daytona Rolex?

[39:06] Or are you going to go buy a bunch of pinball machines

[39:08] that you would value more?

[39:11] Does somebody might go buy a $100,000 bottle of wine

[39:16] that they've always wanted?

[39:18] I don't know.

[39:18] It's each their own.

[39:19] There's a $50,000 bottle of Middleton whiskey

[39:22] that just got unveiled.

[39:24] And people are spending $3,200 just to have a sip.

[39:29] Joe's going to the casino.

[39:31] So that is the thing.

[39:34] And I'll tell you this.

[39:35] And I mean this.

[39:36] I mean this.

[39:39] We sit up a little bit.

[39:43] If I had a dollar, and I know that I've basically

[39:48] lived in a little bit of a non-traditional way.

[39:51] Like I didn't move out.

[39:52] I didn't get a house.

[39:53] I didn't do this.

[39:54] I didn't do that.

[39:55] But what I ended up doing in life is I sort of maybe moved

[40:00] through it a little bit slower than I wanted to.

[40:01] But I was waiting.

[40:03] I didn't want to marry someone unless it was the right person.

[40:06] So I found the right partner in life a little bit later

[40:09] I married Brenda.

[40:10] I met Brenda when I was 37 years old.

[40:15] Man, some people met their love of their lives

[40:17] when they were 17.

[40:19] So having a great partner and the right partner to me

[40:25] is the ultimate foundation for life.

[40:27] Because I don't believe that being lonely and people waking up

[40:32] with nobody is a way to go through life.

[40:35] And I also work with a lot of people

[40:36] that marry their careers.

[40:38] And I work with mostly women.

[40:40] And when you marry your career, and you didn't take time

[40:45] to invest in yourself and find someone else,

[40:48] and all you did was work, work, work, work, work.

[40:50] And then one day they just tap you on the shoulder,

[40:53] and all of a sudden your job is gone.

[40:55] You're in your mid-40s, and you don't have anyone to travel

[40:59] with.

[40:59] You don't have anyone to spend the lonely nights with.

[41:03] You don't have family.

[41:04] You don't have kids.

[41:04] What do you got?

[41:05] You got a bunch of wine, and you got a cat probably.

[41:09] And it's like, how is that how anyone

[41:13] wants to go through this one journey?

[41:17] I mean, I can't imagine that.

[41:19] So you find the right partner.

[41:22] You find the right person to go through with.

[41:26] So that's super important.

[41:27] So I did that.

[41:28] And then so we took our time.

[41:31] We dated for a few years.

[41:33] We got married five years in.

[41:35] We had Killian.

[41:37] We're so happy to have another.

[41:39] And now we're going to invest heavily in a house this year.

[41:45] The market opens up in the spring.

[41:47] There's nothing on the market right now.

[41:49] Been very, very smart with our money.

[41:52] We budget all the time.

[41:55] And we want to make the right decision.

[41:58] We don't want to buy too much house,

[42:00] but we also don't want to buy something too cheap.

[42:02] You want to find that right balance.

[42:05] Pimbal machines are part of that budgeting, if you will.

[42:10] Look, and for some of you out there,

[42:12] we also are in a new world where these companies are

[42:15] requiring people to go back to work.

[42:18] So there's no like, oh, come live in Indiana,

[42:21] or come live in North Carolina, come live in Nashville.

[42:25] Look, I would love to go live in all of your towns

[42:29] and throw a million and a half dollars

[42:31] at a 6,000 square foot home.

[42:34] My job will not allow me to be remote.

[42:38] If I go remote, I'll go broke.

[42:40] If I go remote, I'll be out of sight out of mind.

[42:44] I'm in an industry where you have to be there.

[42:47] That's where the work goes.

[42:49] That's where the clients are.

[42:50] You can't hide out on the internet.

[42:53] OK?

[42:55] And so I need to be around here.

[42:59] So I'm looking at houses within an hour radius of New York

[43:03] City, and they're all just really expensive.

[43:05] $2 million is the new $1 million.

[43:08] $3 to $4 million is what $2 million got you 15 years ago.

[43:12] It's just the way it is.

[43:13] It's just the way it is.

[43:14] It's just the way it is.

[43:19] All right.

[43:20] No, I'm not looking at Jersey.

[43:23] Gang, it doesn't.

[43:25] Bill, I can't go to Vancouver.

[43:26] We don't have offices there.

[43:27] I will come and enjoy the King's Fisher,

[43:29] but there's no offices there for us.

[43:33] Look, I'll tell you right now, too, what's really going to.

[43:36] I mean, my industry is going to get destroyed by AI.

[43:39] Like, the whole marketing and media creation industry

[43:43] is going to get destroyed by AI.

[43:45] Like, AI is going to take over.

[43:47] Like, it's taking over in design departments,

[43:51] copywriters.

[43:52] Like, anyone who's creating media

[43:56] is going to get destroyed by AI faster than they realize it.

[43:59] Like, Tyler Perry was about to build an $800 million

[44:06] movie studio, right?

[44:08] Soundstage is everything so they can make films.

[44:12] He got shown what AI is going to be capable of doing

[44:17] when it comes to movie creation.

[44:19] He canceled the $800 million studio

[44:22] because he's like, I don't need to build this.

[44:25] If I need to be in the Swiss Alps and film a scene,

[44:28] I don't need to have a huge sound studio with the set.

[44:31] They can now use AI to put you there.

[44:34] Like, and it looks real.

[44:39] So don't you, what?

[44:43] I'm like, so here's the thing.

[44:46] Here's the thing.

[44:47] As much as AI is going to make certain industries obsolete,

[44:51] it will open up all new jobs and all new types of abilities

[44:57] to me.

[44:57] Because here's the thing.

[44:58] Think about like this.

[44:59] So imagine like AI comes out and the people

[45:03] that it's going to put out of business

[45:04] are like makeup artists, right?

[45:08] And people that build sets with wood, right?

[45:12] It's going to put out a business like these large production

[45:15] teams and lighting and all this stuff, right?

[45:17] Out of business.

[45:18] OK.

[45:19] But what it's also going to do is make it much cheaper

[45:24] for anybody to come in and start making movies

[45:27] and start making content.

[45:28] So it's going to open up the door for more people

[45:33] to actually make revenue by creating stuff using AI.

[45:38] So you're either going to be someone who embraces the technology

[45:43] and utilizes it to make a living,

[45:46] or you're going to be so stuck in the old ways of doing things

[45:51] that you will be obsolete.

[45:53] And look, when we used to, you know,

[45:57] my old boss, Gary Vaynerchuk, uses the example of the tractor.

[46:02] People have been farming forever, right?

[46:05] Even before there were tractors.

[46:08] But when tractors got made, they made a lot of people's jobs

[46:13] obsolete who plowed the fields.

[46:16] Did we stop farming?

[46:18] No.

[46:19] We just utilized the new technology.

[46:22] And those people that used to farm the fields

[46:25] had to figure out something else to do.

[46:29] So, you know, I think it's real.

[46:33] I'm just happy that I'm at where I'm at in my career.

[46:37] And I'm not starting out.

[46:38] Like, I'm not 22.

[46:41] And I'm a copywriter, or I'm a journalist, right?

[46:45] Or I'm a media person, like a broadcast producer.

[46:49] Like, it's just, it's going to be tough.

[46:52] It's going to be tough.

[46:53] But look, ultimately, what there's

[46:56] eight billion people on the planet,

[46:59] and only a handful of people are actually

[47:01] doing something that's necessary in the world.

[47:04] I also believe, I firmly believe this,

[47:07] that, you know, the world is upside down.

[47:11] You know what phrase I hate the most?

[47:13] Is unskilled worker, right?

[47:15] It's like this discussing.

[47:17] One of the marketing ideas I really want to do

[47:20] is just eliminate that phrase from the vocabulary of society.

[47:24] Like, the fact that people that bust their asses

[47:28] and, you know, bust tables at a diner

[47:32] or are changing, you know, the sheets on a bed in a hotel

[47:36] are considered unskilled workers, right?

[47:38] Unskilled workers.

[47:40] And yet, just pretentious, elitist guys

[47:46] going into an office, selling stocks and bonds.

[47:51] What skill do they really have?

[47:54] Could they, if you put those guys in a diner

[47:58] and told them to keep this diner going for a month,

[48:01] it would collapse instantly.

[48:03] But if you took the hardworking people

[48:07] in the unskilled category and threw them into Wall Street

[48:10] and asked them to learn how to trade stocks,

[48:12] and they would do just as well.

[48:16] And I think society is like this weird thing.

[48:20] It's one of the reasons why I love Japanese culture,

[48:23] because unlike American culture, we demean people

[48:28] and we talk down to people

[48:30] and we're rude to people who are serving us.

[48:33] In Japanese culture, you know, even at the very most,

[48:36] like, trivial job, they have so much respect

[48:40] for the work they're doing and put everything into it

[48:43] and there's pride in that job.

[48:46] And they're not looked down upon, right?

[48:49] It's an insult.

[48:50] It's an insult in Japan to tip somebody

[48:53] because that means they feel like they didn't do their job,

[48:58] right?

[48:59] Like, you shouldn't have to pay me more.

[49:01] When I go to my Japanese jazz bar,

[49:03] and this is just a Sicilian to me,

[49:05] and they let me in, and Bill, are we going with your parents?

[49:08] I think they're gonna love it.

[49:10] You know, they won't, they don't,

[49:13] I can always tell, because I always wanna give the guy

[49:15] like some money when he lets me in, you know,

[49:17] the back entrance, and he's a friend of mine,

[49:20] but he's always like, I can tell you,

[49:21] he's like, he's visually and physically

[49:26] does not wanna take a tip.

[49:29] What I did do, and it wasn't a tip,

[49:31] is this holiday, I did go around

[49:33] and I got everybody's name who worked there,

[49:36] and I gave them all personalized holiday cards

[49:40] with a nice holiday, you know, some money,

[49:43] as just to say thank you for being a part of this place

[49:47] that means so much to me.

[49:48] You know, when Brenda asked me,

[49:49] who do you wanna like give gifts to this year?

[49:52] I mean it when I say it, like, yeah, like, you know,

[49:55] you gotta give gifts to your family,

[49:57] but trust me, my parents don't need another like silk scarf

[50:01] or golf club, you know, or my brother,

[50:04] like, you know, like I could give to my family,

[50:05] they just expect it.

[50:08] I really wanted to give gifts to the two places

[50:11] that I go to all the time, and the people who work

[50:14] in the service industry that break their backs every day,

[50:18] crazy hours, making it so that, you know,

[50:21] everyone who goes in has a good time.

[50:24] Like when I think about pinball gang,

[50:25] I think it, let's bring this back to pinball a little bit.

[50:28] How many of you know the name of someone who works

[50:30] on the line at Stern Pinball?

[50:33] How many, like, why aren't we talking about

[50:35] the men and women more who are waking up every day

[50:39] and soldering pinball machines together,

[50:43] making sure your decals are on straight,

[50:46] making sure your game goes into the box?

[50:49] John, John just said Jose.

[50:54] I mean, I think that's, is there Jose there?

[50:58] Are you stereotyping, you know, Stern's,

[51:02] I think Stern has like a lot of Mexican women, right?

[51:04] Who work the line?

[51:08] I don't know, game.

[51:09] I think about this stuff all the time, you know,

[51:12] and the reason why is like, you know,

[51:16] you have really a short amount of time alive

[51:20] and you've got 365 days a year and only 24 hours in a day.

[51:26] And, you know, what you put into your mind

[51:29] equals what comes out of it.

[51:31] And if you're negative all the time, and if we,

[51:35] you know, you listen to the political banter

[51:36] of this country all the time,

[51:38] and you're getting in fights on pin side all the time,

[51:40] it just doesn't, it's not gonna make you enjoy your day.

[51:46] I like to think that Canadian Pinball Podcast

[51:48] is very entertaining.

[51:50] I like to think that when you listen to me,

[51:52] the only people really getting an adjada for my show

[51:55] are the companies that are not doing it, right?

[51:57] And look, I also think there's a room to call people out,

[51:59] right?

[52:00] We can't live in a world in which, you know,

[52:02] nobody's held accountable.

[52:07] Probably shouldn't waste it listening.

[52:08] Well, you know, Bill, I'll tell you this,

[52:10] my Pinball Podcasts are 20 minutes long, you know?

[52:15] I mean, I am the most concise to the point,

[52:19] most current and most relevant

[52:21] Pinball Podcast happening right now.

[52:23] And ever since I changed even my own format

[52:26] to be more weekly, more on top of it,

[52:30] more consistent, it's been better.

[52:33] And I have over 800 club members, you know?

[52:35] Nobody else, like there's more club members

[52:39] for a Canadian Pinball Podcast

[52:40] than every other Pinball Podcast are combined.

[52:45] And, you know, that's great.

[52:48] It means I'm doing something, right?

[52:51] Oh, geez, Bill.

[52:54] Bill, you guys are, like, I don't even know

[52:56] if this stuff doesn't sound appropriate.

[52:59] All right, so, do you guys think

[53:03] Haggis Pinball goes out of business?

[53:06] Do you think Haggis Pinball goes out of business?

[53:09] I'm curious what you think of Haggis.

[53:12] Albert, I'm never sure,

[53:15] I'm never sure where there is,

[53:18] I think they already did.

[53:21] I've never, Albert, where is your podcast on now?

[53:24] Like, I don't, like, is it on poor man's?

[53:28] Like, that channel is all over the place.

[53:30] I can't figure it out.

[53:36] I think Haggis is, I think,

[53:40] the reason why I think Haggis is done

[53:42] and a lot of you are saying it,

[53:44] I just don't see how they're gonna get orders for Centaur.

[53:48] And if they need to recapitalize now

[53:51] and they're gonna slow production,

[53:52] then there's no money coming in.

[53:54] And I mean this game, like,

[53:56] if you have a deposit on Centaur

[53:59] and they ask you to pay in full,

[54:03] I would refuse.

[54:05] I would absolutely refuse.

[54:07] I would be like, look, I'm not paying in full

[54:10] everything that you've said makes me feel

[54:12] like there's a lot of volatility.

[54:15] Mail my game to the distributor

[54:18] or show me my game in a box

[54:20] and then I will pay for it in full.

[54:24] You know, I am curious to hear

[54:25] from the three distributors of Haggis,

[54:27] like, what's next?

[54:29] You know, we didn't hear yet from Flippin' Out,

[54:32] Nitro or Aura's Pinball,

[54:34] but those are the three Haggis distributors

[54:37] and you know, I'm curious to see what they say

[54:40] over the next few weeks.

[54:42] Also really interesting to see if like Damian

[54:45] and Marty go to TPF.

[54:48] If these guys show up at TPF,

[54:51] as they're recapitalizing,

[54:53] as they're trying to save money,

[54:55] I think that would be a terrible look for this company.

[55:00] And you know, part of going to the shows,

[55:02] part of the reasons of going to a show

[55:04] is, you know, is a reward, you know?

[55:07] But also like, if they go to the show

[55:10] to try to hook new Centaur orders,

[55:12] and this is why they probably need to go to the show.

[55:15] This is the, like, they're stuck.

[55:17] If they go to the show, it's a terrible look for them

[55:21] because of where they are financially.

[55:23] But if they don't go to the show,

[55:26] then they're not gonna be able to hook new orders

[55:30] from people who have no clue

[55:31] what's going on with that company.

[55:34] Because remember, there's a lot of people

[55:36] that are not on Pinside,

[55:37] that don't listen to the Canadi's Pinball podcast,

[55:39] who are just walking around Texas Pinball Festival

[55:44] and they see a Centaur.

[55:46] And then they may be, oh, this game is beautiful.

[55:47] I love the order one.

[55:48] Sure, we'll take your deposit.

[55:53] But I think it's over.

[55:55] I think it's over because like,

[55:57] Damien is a day late and a dollar short

[56:00] with a product that's just not enticing enough

[56:02] considering how much better everybody's executing.

[56:05] I think Haggis is gonna be done in 2024.

[56:09] And I think American Pinball is gonna be done in 2024.

[56:13] I would be shocked if by the end of this year,

[56:18] Haggis and American Pinball are still going.

[56:22] That's just my personal opinion.

[56:25] I'm allowed to say that, okay?

[56:29] I would be shocked.

[56:32] You know, in it for the long haul, American Pinball,

[56:40] so Alice in Wonderland is getting closer and closer

[56:44] and closer.

[56:46] There's a fully playable version.

[56:50] Fortunately, I can't see it because,

[56:55] but I've been told I will be the first to see it

[56:58] when things are ready to be shown.

[57:02] Well, the series ticket holders, David,

[57:04] I think these guys are like,

[57:06] most of those guys are Australian.

[57:09] You know, they backed an Aussie.

[57:10] They really want to back an Aussie

[57:13] and they're gonna get what they paid for.

[57:16] Nothing in the end.

[57:18] They might get their second game.

[57:20] I mean, isn't it crazy?

[57:21] Like, Center is only the second game.

[57:23] They paid for four, like two more after that.

[57:30] Well, look, the thing is this,

[57:32] there's only one way out for Damien.

[57:34] There's, well, there's two options here.

[57:36] He either lands an investor or he goes under.

[57:41] Now, he could land an investor and survive.

[57:43] I mean, like, if he does that, that's one option.

[57:49] I don't know how you're gonna win.

[57:52] I haven't, I'm just making a guess here.

[57:55] I would have to guess that he is both

[57:57] personally heavily invested in this and so is Marty.

[58:01] And for them to give up equity,

[58:05] I think they're gonna lose six, seven figures easily,

[58:10] easily on this thing.

[58:12] And it's like, and they must be really,

[58:16] really wondering why they did this.

[58:18] Like, why did we do this?

[58:20] Why did we go from a million dollars

[58:22] and now we're staring at like,

[58:24] we need a few thousand dollars every month to stay afloat?

[58:28] It's just hard.

[58:30] The problem Carl is, is the product is not,

[58:33] it's not like the big Lebowski.

[58:35] Like the product doesn't have enough demand.

[58:39] And I think the only way you can survive

[58:41] is if you still need to have a product

[58:44] that can show demand and there needs to be scalability.

[58:47] Like when Jersey Jack went bankrupt,

[58:50] it wasn't because people didn't like the product.

[58:52] It's like Jack just mismanaged the finances of it all

[58:55] and it just costs more to make that game than he realized.

[58:58] Same thing with the big Lebowski,

[59:00] but there was still a heavy demand for the product.

[59:04] There was not a heavy demand for Fathom or Centaur.

[59:08] That's the problem I see.

[59:11] Now look, if Haggis had back to the future

[59:14] or this or that, I don't know.

[59:17] They might, they, they, whatever happened to Marty's game?

[59:20] You know, we don't even talk about Marty's game.

[59:22] Marty's game was supposed to be out two years ago.

[59:25] And it's based on War of the Worlds

[59:28] and it's sitting probably somewhere in his house

[59:31] or in a garage over at Haggis.

[59:36] It's gonna get very interesting to see what happens

[59:39] with all those deposits though.

[59:40] There's a lot of, you know,

[59:42] there's a lot of risk being taken,

[59:45] guaranteeing that if Haggis went under

[59:48] that everyone's deposits would be refunded.

[59:52] I just never would have done that.

[59:55] Now that's the thing.

[59:57] All right, we didn't even talk about Stern.

[59:59] Bill, you're right.

[01:00:00] Look, we got 20 minutes.

[01:00:01] We didn't even touch on Indiana Jones.

[01:00:03] All right, so let's go to the Stern Rumor Bank, right?

[01:00:06] Stern Rumor Bank.

[01:00:10] That Indiana Jones is next from John Borg.

[01:00:13] That John Wick will be made by Jack Danger.

[01:00:17] That Pokemon is the code name for John Wick.

[01:00:22] Poke E-Mond.

[01:00:24] Poke a man.

[01:00:26] I think, I don't know,

[01:00:27] is that John Wick shooting people poking a man?

[01:00:30] That is what I'm hearing.

[01:00:32] And then after that will be Metallica.

[01:00:34] So maybe not two Keith Elwin games in one year.

[01:00:38] You know, look, Bill, if you're looking

[01:00:42] at the current pinball landscape,

[01:00:44] most people don't own a Baldy Williams, Indiana Jones.

[01:00:47] And Bill, you gotta remember Bill,

[01:00:49] there's just Stern collectors.

[01:00:51] Most new buyers are buying Stern.

[01:00:54] So that is why, that is why, I don't know,

[01:00:57] it's not a bad idea for Stern to make a new Indiana Jones game.

[01:01:01] So I think, I think, I don't know.

[01:01:06] I think John Wick is not a good theme for pinball.

[01:01:08] I'm sorry.

[01:01:09] I love the movies, but I don't know.

[01:01:12] Like, I don't, at these prices, I just,

[01:01:16] I don't know, like there's not like enough nostalgia.

[01:01:18] It's not a nostalgic theme.

[01:01:19] It's a new theme, but that's not really,

[01:01:23] they would, Stern would sell five times more Barbies

[01:01:28] than John Wick, five times.

[01:01:31] The fact that Stern pinball didn't ink a deal

[01:01:34] for Barbie blows me away.

[01:01:37] Barbie is such a bigger franchise than John Wick.

[01:01:41] And that bright pink pinball machine would be

[01:01:44] in the homes of every single corporate executive

[01:01:48] who has a little daughter.

[01:01:50] They would not be able to keep Barbie pinball in stock,

[01:01:55] especially if it's based on the Barbie movie.

[01:02:00] And I'm just gonna tell you that.

[01:02:01] I mean, it's true.

[01:02:05] Heck, I would buy a Barbie pin.

[01:02:08] Could pinball brothers remake the Williams Indiana Jones?

[01:02:11] I mean, I don't see why not.

[01:02:14] I don't think they're going to.

[01:02:18] It's an Instagram filter.

[01:02:19] It is John should be.

[01:02:24] Yeah, like gang, I think Indiana Jones

[01:02:28] will be a sales juggernaut if Stern does it.

[01:02:30] Metallica, they're supposed to be.

[01:02:32] Maybe it's not a new design layout.

[01:02:34] Like I heard, it's just gonna be new artwork.

[01:02:37] I don't know, like if Stern runs more Metallica

[01:02:42] with the old design, with new artwork,

[01:02:45] aren't you gonna piss off 6,000 people

[01:02:48] that have the original Metallica

[01:02:50] and just flood the used market with more of those games?

[01:02:55] It's just the amount of games for sale right now.

[01:02:58] It's such a buyer's market.

[01:02:59] I love it.

[01:03:00] I love it being a buyer's market.

[01:03:02] Collecting is dead.

[01:03:03] Nothing is collectible anymore, gang.

[01:03:05] You all know this.

[01:03:06] If you want to collect a machine

[01:03:08] that's gonna hold value or go up in value,

[01:03:10] you got it.

[01:03:11] There's only a handful of games

[01:03:13] that I think are still something

[01:03:16] you should even consider.

[01:03:19] Games like Guardians of the Galaxy, Ellie.

[01:03:24] That's one I would try to find for a good price.

[01:03:28] All right, Guardians Ellie, I'm gonna give you my list.

[01:03:30] If I was like, if I had $100,000

[01:03:34] and you asked me, Canada,

[01:03:36] what machines would you buy

[01:03:39] on a collector's speculative run?

[01:03:44] Right?

[01:03:45] All right, you ready?

[01:03:47] You ready?

[01:03:51] And I'm gonna give a reason.

[01:03:54] Guardians of the Galaxy, Ellie.

[01:03:57] All right?

[01:03:58] I'll tell you why.

[01:04:00] That theme alone with the music,

[01:04:04] there's a reason why Genghis,

[01:04:07] you don't see a single one for sale.

[01:04:09] That means people ain't letting them go.

[01:04:12] Again, I'm giving you,

[01:04:15] there is always gonna be demand for that theme.

[01:04:18] The theme is amazing, the music is amazing.

[01:04:21] Like the code got to a really good place.

[01:04:24] I think a lot of us wrote that game off

[01:04:26] before the code became amazing.

[01:04:29] And that is why you're not seeing

[01:04:30] any of them listed for sale.

[01:04:32] There's zero.

[01:04:34] There's only one that's routed on eBay for $20,000.

[01:04:39] You can't find the damn game anywhere.

[01:04:41] All right, so Guardians Ellie, that's one I would buy.

[01:04:47] Number two on my list,

[01:04:50] and I'm not just saying it because I have it.

[01:04:51] I'm just saying from collectability,

[01:04:53] if you can find it for the right price,

[01:04:56] Batman Super Ellie, but no brainer.

[01:05:00] I mean, people laughed at me when I bought one again for 25,

[01:05:03] you're never gonna find one again for 25,000.

[01:05:06] You're never gonna find one again for 25,000.

[01:05:09] There's one for sale right now for 48,000,

[01:05:11] which is a stupid price.

[01:05:13] I think the going price on a Batman SLE now,

[01:05:17] if it has a playfield protector is 35,000.

[01:05:20] If it doesn't, you're looking around like maybe 30, okay?

[01:05:24] Look, Bill, this isn't about good game, terrible game.

[01:05:27] It's about collectability, right?

[01:05:30] You guys don't get it.

[01:05:32] You don't get it.

[01:05:32] That's not, just because collectability is different

[01:05:36] than the game being good.

[01:05:38] Godzilla is number one game.

[01:05:41] I would not buy one as a collector,

[01:05:43] as a speculative collector.

[01:05:44] I'm just talking to you about collectability.

[01:05:47] If you buy this game today,

[01:05:49] it is gonna hold value or go up.

[01:05:54] All right, we understand what collectability means.

[01:05:57] It doesn't mean that this was the best baseball player.

[01:06:00] Just means that his card might be just the rarest.

[01:06:05] All right, Batman SLE, Guardians Ellie.

[01:06:10] All right, next on my list of things I would collect

[01:06:13] that I think are gonna have future value.

[01:06:19] If you can get it for the right price.

[01:06:21] It is not a lot.

[01:06:23] It is not a lot.

[01:06:26] And I'm talking about today, right?

[01:06:29] Like, I don't think Pirates of the Caribbean

[01:06:35] is something that always gets thrown out there

[01:06:36] and medieval man is royal addition.

[01:06:39] They're gonna make more medieval mannises

[01:06:42] and they're gonna come from CGC.

[01:06:43] So I would not, I would not shock up

[01:06:47] medieval man is collectors addition,

[01:06:49] royal addition as something I would invest in.

[01:06:51] I think anyone who buys one for $20,000

[01:06:54] is gonna kick themselves or $18,000

[01:06:56] because they're making more and they're coming

[01:06:59] and they have the parts in house and they're just waiting.

[01:07:02] Now the game I would get as a collector

[01:07:07] is Pulp Fiction Limited Edition, okay?

[01:07:11] Pulp Fiction Limited Edition, brand new, $9,750.

[01:07:17] I believe they're making 1,000 of them, right?

[01:07:21] Pulp Fiction LE is gonna be another game

[01:07:25] that you will never see it for anywhere close to 975.

[01:07:30] It's just the topper, the back box,

[01:07:34] everything about it is nicer than the standard edition game

[01:07:40] and it is going to be bolted to the floor

[01:07:44] because of the theme Tarantino's first pinball machine.

[01:07:49] And again, I don't care about the gameplay, okay?

[01:07:56] Now look, Bill, a lot of these games are fun though too.

[01:07:59] All right, so we've got Guardians LE, Batman SLE,

[01:08:04] Pulp Fiction LE, what is the next game on my list?

[01:08:08] Again, from a pure collector standpoint.

[01:08:14] You know, and this is like, it pains me to say this

[01:08:16] because the game is terrible,

[01:08:18] but I do think Ghostbusters LE is on that list of like,

[01:08:28] I understand, okay, why Ghostbusters would like

[01:08:35] that art package, you gotta have the topper,

[01:08:39] you know, it's terrible shooter, but it's Ghostbusters.

[01:08:41] So that would be one I would consider.

[01:08:44] Someone just said attack from Mars LE.

[01:08:49] Yeah, like, I think, I do think,

[01:08:52] I do think here's what's gonna happen.

[01:08:54] I do think all of the original CGC LEs, right,

[01:09:00] are gonna be good buys

[01:09:01] because I think the Pudretti Gaming

[01:09:04] or the European Pinball Company remakes

[01:09:06] are not gonna be nearly as good.

[01:09:09] And I think anything that comes out of the CGC factory

[01:09:13] is gonna be like coveted, you know,

[01:09:15] especially with these remakes, ha, I get centaurs.

[01:09:20] So look, I do think like, you know,

[01:09:23] Cactus Canyon, not so much.

[01:09:25] I don't ever think they're gonna redo the code in that game.

[01:09:29] Cactus Canyon just doesn't have the same,

[01:09:32] it never was as good of a game as attack from Mars

[01:09:36] or medieval madness and Monster Bash.

[01:09:40] So I think, look, those games are all good,

[01:09:42] they're all solid, you know,

[01:09:44] I think they're gonna hold value nicely.

[01:09:49] And when it comes to Jersey Jack, you know,

[01:09:51] it's interesting, cause like you've got the pirates,

[01:09:54] I don't think Elton John's ever gonna,

[01:09:56] like I wouldn't go in on an Elton John.

[01:09:59] I think they're gonna make more

[01:10:01] than there was ever gonna be demand for.

[01:10:03] And also, you know, they're never gonna be like,

[01:10:06] oh, we're never making more like they did with pirates.

[01:10:09] They could always do future runs of Elton John down the road

[01:10:13] when there's a little bit of a gap period.

[01:10:14] I think JJP is going to do that.

[01:10:17] I think a thousand CEs absolutely destroys the collectability.

[01:10:23] Hector, I wanna address these two games.

[01:10:26] Absolutely Tron-Eli is on my list.

[01:10:29] I think Tron-Eli with only 400 in the world

[01:10:35] and it had the Daft Punk multi-ball

[01:10:37] and it's got the chromed out armor.

[01:10:40] Absolutely.

[01:10:41] Stranger Things-Eli, not so much.

[01:10:45] I don't think Stranger Things-Eli,

[01:10:48] now that they're rerunning premiums left and right,

[01:10:52] I don't think there's enough reason why

[01:10:55] that, you know, having a Stranger Things-Eli

[01:10:58] feels like that special.

[01:11:01] Tron has unique thing to it.

[01:11:07] But I also, you know, I worry of a potential remake

[01:11:11] of a Tron with an LCD screen.

[01:11:14] I worry about that.

[01:11:16] I also, you know, I also think what could happen.

[01:11:20] Again, this is, it's just fun to think about this stuff,

[01:11:23] and by the way, I'm not taking $100,000

[01:11:25] and going to buy all these games.

[01:11:27] It's just fun to think about this.

[01:11:29] Like, where's the market going to go on these, like,

[01:11:31] you know, highly sought after games?

[01:11:34] I think what's going to happen though is this.

[01:11:36] I think we're going to see some really awesome

[01:11:38] pinball machines that are finally going to check

[01:11:41] all the boxes and I think that's going to make the prices

[01:11:43] of everything go down from yesteryears.

[01:11:47] Like, I think we're going to see back to the future,

[01:11:51] Matrix, Harry Potter, Top Gun, like,

[01:11:54] holy cow themes are going to come.

[01:11:57] And that's just going to drive down the prices of stuff

[01:12:00] that, you know, that came out and has less in it

[01:12:05] or, you know, cheaper cabinets and not a lot of mechs

[01:12:10] and you just get old, you get tired of stuff.

[01:12:14] I think it will make everything go up.

[01:12:17] No, the market's oversaturated.

[01:12:20] How is the market going to go up

[01:12:22] when it's already oversaturated?

[01:12:27] You know, that the thing is, the scary part,

[01:12:30] and this is not even talking about collectability,

[01:12:33] is with all of these pinball companies

[01:12:35] making all of these games, who's buying all of them?

[01:12:39] You know, I mean, and with the old model,

[01:12:43] how long can the distributor model last?

[01:12:45] That's the other thing I always wonder,

[01:12:47] like, how are these distributors going to survive

[01:12:52] carrying games from six, seven manufacturers?

[01:12:57] Like, how are they gonna, like,

[01:13:01] the profits they make on a hit game

[01:13:03] are gonna be eroded by a mediocre seller?

[01:13:07] Like, they're not gonna be able to absorb all of it.

[01:13:12] And it's too expensive, right?

[01:13:14] This isn't cheap.

[01:13:17] Like, distributors have to write checks

[01:13:19] for hundreds of thousands of dollars to get,

[01:13:23] yeah, but Jenga is, even the trading stuff's gonna stop.

[01:13:28] Like, no, because the thing is, is we all know this,

[01:13:30] a distributor's gonna offer you garbage on the trading deal.

[01:13:34] Garbage.

[01:13:36] Like, you're gonna lose, you're gonna get a good $1,500

[01:13:40] to $2,000 less on a dealer trade-in

[01:13:44] than if you sold the game privately.

[01:13:48] I, Joe, I don't know, man.

[01:13:50] There's not a lot of room to keep increasing the prices.

[01:13:53] These aren't watches you can put in a top drawer.

[01:13:56] They're huge, they're big 300 pound boxes.

[01:13:59] Like, they're just not, there's just,

[01:14:03] I think people are gonna just run out of room

[01:14:06] before they run out of money.

[01:14:09] I mean, that's really what's gonna happen.

[01:14:13] Yeah, Albert, I think location pinball

[01:14:14] is gonna absolutely have such a stronger growth,

[01:14:17] and Stern Pro is obviously the smartest offering

[01:14:21] in the market.

[01:14:24] I mean, I would love to open up a location, you know,

[01:14:26] just too expensive here.

[01:14:30] There's so many vacant storefronts in Manhattan, so many,

[01:14:36] but I just could not see how you would make money

[01:14:39] with a pinball bar.

[01:14:41] All right, we got about five more minutes, people.

[01:14:44] What a fun show today.

[01:14:45] Only 121 stars.

[01:14:47] I don't know, gang, like, not for nothing,

[01:14:50] but this star count.

[01:14:53] This is not worth it.

[01:14:54] I mean, at the end of the day now,

[01:14:55] I feel like I could just,

[01:14:58] I could just make this video for my Patreon club members,

[01:15:02] and it's, come on, come on, Billy B.

[01:15:07] There we go.

[01:15:10] You know, it used to be Dana and Pete Rosen

[01:15:12] were my two guys.

[01:15:15] Times are tough.

[01:15:19] Well, I'm excited for what's about to happen.

[01:15:22] I'm excited for tonight.

[01:15:23] So guys, just to recapture what we're gonna do,

[01:15:26] eight o'clock tonight, I will be watching

[01:15:29] the Princess Bride stream.

[01:15:31] The pinball was, Brody even talked pinball.

[01:15:35] Are they doing it?

[01:15:36] I think they're doing it.

[01:15:37] No, Buffalo pinball.

[01:15:40] Buffalo pinball is streaming it.

[01:15:43] And I will be watching live here.

[01:15:48] I thought this was all for the pinball community.

[01:15:50] It is all for the pinball community, Bill,

[01:15:52] but you know, it's nice to kick some stars.

[01:15:54] You feel good about yourself.

[01:15:55] You'll feel better about you

[01:15:56] than I'll feel about me, Bill, trust me.

[01:15:58] I guarantee you that.

[01:15:59] But in a world in which, how do you send stars?

[01:16:02] I guess Shane doesn't come up.

[01:16:05] Do you guys see the stars button?

[01:16:07] It won't let me, I would like,

[01:16:09] I wanna show you guys,

[01:16:11] that's weird that you can't attach a photo.

[01:16:13] Oh, here we go.

[01:16:14] No, that's turning around.

[01:16:17] I wanted to attach Killian's birthday invite to this,

[01:16:20] but it won't let me.

[01:16:22] Bottom left corner is a star.

[01:16:23] You, Ed, try it out.

[01:16:28] Ugh, getting doxxed.

[01:16:32] I love that people were like,

[01:16:33] if you give someone's email address, it's doxxing them.

[01:16:38] Having someone's email address is not doxxing them.

[01:16:41] Oh my gosh.

[01:16:44] Ugh.

[01:16:46] Is really cool happening at TPF?

[01:16:49] I mean, I can't wait to see David Fix

[01:16:53] and Maurice up there in Vali in this new game.

[01:16:56] It's gonna be funny.

[01:16:58] There we go, 250 stars, Michael Jones.

[01:17:01] I'll be doing what you would make.

[01:17:04] You're gonna go.

[01:17:07] All right, everybody, look, have a great Saturday.

[01:17:13] A lot of fun stuff happening.

[01:17:18] I look forward to doing more shows next week.

[01:17:21] Thank you for the 570 stars, everybody.

[01:17:24] And I will be back tonight around eight o'clock,

[01:17:29] a little before, so we can see what happening

[01:17:33] with this Princess Bride.

[01:17:34] Let's all go in it with a little bit of an open mind, right?

[01:17:37] I mean, look, I'm not buying one.

[01:17:38] I'm not buying one, but I want people who do buy it

[01:17:41] to be happy with their purchase.

[01:17:44] I just know what's coming from other people,

[01:17:46] and there's just too much.

[01:17:48] And now that Spooky might have Sonic

[01:17:51] and Stern might have Indiana Jones,

[01:17:53] like, man, you can't have it all.

[01:17:55] You can't have it all.

[01:17:56] And it's more because everyone's gonna run out of room.

[01:18:00] I just, I don't wanna have $100,000 tied up

[01:18:03] in pinball machines.

[01:18:04] I really don't, I really don't.

[01:18:05] I feel the same way about cars lately.

[01:18:07] I'm just like, this doesn't make any sense.

[01:18:10] All right, guys, be good, later.

[01:18:13] I'm sailing away, away, you're welcome.

[01:18:18] The power can't do everything but flow.

[01:18:20] You're welcome, you're welcome, you're welcome.

[01:18:25] And thank you.
