# Transcript: 2024-08-28_Episode 991 Ugh...Avatar.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-18 04:42  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 21:37

---

[00:00] It leaves a bird taste in my mouth, if they aren't just words, can't you spit them out?

[00:06] My feelings get hurt if you say it out loud, I don't care for what you're telling me,

[00:16] yeah I know things on what they used to be, the bubbles burst and I don't wanna get up.

[00:23] CELUS CELUS CELUS CELUS CELUS CELUS CELUS

[00:28] I'm gonna break it down real simple, for those of you who think this is a good theme for pinball,

[00:37] name me four characters from Avatar, just four, name me four characters that you remember,

[00:47] you remember their names, you remember lines they delivered in like what, like six and a half,

[00:54] seven hours of cinema, name me four characters that you talk about with your friends, name me four

[01:03] characters that you've seen on t-shirts, name me four characters that your kids talk about wanting

[01:10] you can't, and I'm just gonna make a guess that you don't even know two characters from the Avatar

[01:18] world, and that is why I don't care if it's made four billion at the box office, Avatar is a terrible

[01:26] theme for pinball, and Jersey Jack continues to make what I think are just decisions between Leonard

[01:34] Abbas and Jack Winari, which again, telegraph to me, they don't do any market research, they don't

[01:42] know what anybody really wants in the pinball buying demographic, you go, I mean this is a terrible

[01:47] lineup, you go from freaking Toy Story 4, which is maybe the worst damn theme selection in the

[01:54] history of pinball, and you gotta go watch Quentin Tarantino talk about how he will never even watch

[02:01] Toy Story 4, because Toy Story 3 was the perfect way to end the story, you go from that to freaking

[02:10] the godfather to Elton John to Avatar, okay, I can name you four characters from Star Wars right

[02:18] away, Princess Leia, Han Solo, Luke Skywalker, Darth Vader, Darth Maul, Yoda, Chewbacca, CP3O,

[02:26] R2-D2, I can't even name you four characters from Avatar, can I name you four characters from X-Men?

[02:32] Instantly, Wolverine, Storm, Cyclops, Xavier, Magneto, Beast, you can keep on going, and for those of

[02:42] you out there who don't understand why nobody out there is gonna spend 12 to 15 thousand dollars

[02:49] to recreate the battle of the Hallelujah Mountains. I mean this, I'm looking at the Jason Knapp who

[02:58] just broke this exclusively, that Jersey Jack's next game is Avatar, and I'm looking at these

[03:05] inserts, and I'm just thinking to myself, who the heck out there other than James Cameron even

[03:12] remembers any of this? The battle of the Hallelujah Mountains, Oma Tikaiya Songcord,

[03:21] Oel Nagati Kami, whatever the hell that means, and then we got Metcayena Songcord, I mean this is

[03:30] just a name. We already have had an Avatar pinball machine from Stern Pinball like 12 years ago when

[03:41] the freaking movie came out. The recent Avatar movie, I get that it made a lot of money in the

[03:47] theaters, and guess what people, they're gonna make three more Avatar movies. So why would you come out

[03:55] with this theme right now? Why? It makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. I think I speak for each and

[04:04] every one of us. Everybody would rather have the Muppets over Avatar. Again, you can't name four

[04:13] people from the Avatar movies. Can you name four Muppet characters that you love? Miss Piggy,

[04:21] Kermit, Animal, and Fawzi Freakin Bear. I would rather have a Fawzi Bear collector's edition of

[04:31] the Muppets than have another Avatar pinball machine in the pinball world. This news is so

[04:40] deflating. Everybody wanted it to be the Matrix. We knew it was not gonna be Harry Potter, and maybe

[04:49] it was gonna be Margaritaville, but to be Avatar. And to me, the fact that it is Avatar just telegraphs

[04:58] to me that Jack Guinari and Leonard Abbess are the only two people over at Jersey Jack Pinball that

[05:07] have any say in what the themes of this company will be. It feels like a company that doesn't need

[05:15] to even make proper decisions. When you have this much money backing you, they can make whatever

[05:23] they want, and the money does not matter. And I think the reason why these moves are deflating for

[05:30] the rest of us is we really want Jersey Jack with its beautiful platform to bring us a theme that

[05:39] we actually really want. And I know that most people do not want Avatar. And this is not a

[05:46] property that has this like long lasting nostalgic demand amongst anybody. Like I never hear anybody

[05:56] ever. And I don't care if you're young, if you're old, nobody has rallied around this franchise.

[06:05] And you know what the greatest testament to a great franchise is? My boss says this, my chief

[06:12] creative officer over in Sweden, he always says Chris, the real sign that you have something that

[06:19] is popping in culture that people love is they wear it on a t shirt. How many times have you seen

[06:29] a guns and roses t shirt all over the place? How many times do you see people wearing X men clothing,

[06:38] Wolverine t shirts all over the place? How many times have you seen in the last like five years

[06:47] anybody ever rocking in Avatar t shirt? I've seen people wearing Jaws t shirts. I've seen people

[06:56] wearing Star Wars t shirts. I've seen people wearing Deadpool t shirts. And that is just it in a nutshell.

[07:04] Jersey Jack Pimbal is making games for Jack Winari and Leonard Abbess and nobody else. Now look,

[07:15] Avatar is not a complete surprise. We knew this was in the running. I'd been talking about JJP

[07:22] Avatar for a really long time. I know that Leonard was friends with the late John Landau who

[07:29] unfortunately passed away. And so there definitely was a relationship there. And I get it. But man,

[07:37] out of all the Disney properties, out of all the things they could have made that the Pimbal buying

[07:43] demographic would have been happy to hear, right? I mean, that's the thing. It's like I'm on the pin

[07:50] side. They're nobody's happy to hear that Jersey Jack Pimbal's next machine is Avatar. You know,

[07:57] out of all the things they could have done, they landed on something and this theme is a lot like

[08:02] the Hobbit. Like on paper, it seems like it's a no brainer, right? A multi-billion dollar film

[08:09] franchise. Can I remind you guys, do you want to know another film franchise that grossed two

[08:15] billion dollars at the box office is called John Wick? How did that Pimbal machine do? And I'm

[08:24] telling you right now, with this game being Avatar, I believe it's going to be dead on arrival. I

[08:30] don't think people want it. I don't think people are going to warm up to this theme. It's not going

[08:35] to do what they think it's going to do. And look, I'm just going to guess it's going to have a big

[08:40] tree in the middle of the game, and they're going to use lighting and they're going to use black

[08:45] lighting and all this bioluminescent feeling to the game. I get it, but it's just not what people

[08:53] want to own right now. And like, let's just look at the franchise. For example, like there's three

[08:58] more movies coming out. So is this going to be based on the first two movies or just the first

[09:04] movie? And again, it's a 12 year old movie. The second movie didn't really catch on and nobody's

[09:12] really wanting three more Avatar movies. And the thing about Avatar is this, they're not good movies.

[09:21] They're just spectacles. It's like you're not even going to the movie when you see Avatar in

[09:27] IMAX in 3D. You're paying like $25 and you're getting on a three hour ride. That's what makes

[09:37] Avatar so appealing. When the first one came out, it was like nothing we had ever seen before in

[09:44] cinema. It was a groundbreaking experience. And remember what happened after Avatar? All these

[09:50] movies started being in 3D, right? We all bought 3D movies and we thought we were going to wear

[09:56] glasses on our couches and watch everything in 3D. And look where we are now. Nobody. Nobody's using

[10:03] 3D TVs. No movies are coming out in 3D anymore. And when the new Avatar movie came out, it was just

[10:10] more of the same. It wasn't groundbreaking. And the story was just whatever, right? The characters,

[10:17] what's going on? You don't care about Jake Sully, the way you care about Luke Skywalker, and the way

[10:26] you care about Wolverine, and the way you care about killing a shark, and the way you care about

[10:33] Godzilla, and the way you care about Beetlejuice, and the way you care about the Gremlins, and the

[10:38] way you care about Cobra Kai, and the way you care about John McClain and Die Hard, and the way you

[10:44] care about Corbin Dallas in the fifth element. I mean, it is really one of the most intriguing

[10:51] franchises because on the surface, it seems like it's a no-brainer. But when you dive down into it,

[11:01] nobody owns Avatar memorabilia. Nobody buys Avatar t-shirts. Nobody collects Avatar action figures.

[11:12] And nobody sure as hell wants to spend 12 to $15,000 on an Avatar pinball machine. And this is why

[11:21] marketing matters. And this is why you have to do market research. And this is why you have to

[11:27] understand. If you want to spend all the energy, and all the money, and all the effort to making a

[11:35] pinball machine, and you're Jersey Jack with a multi-billionaire backer, how are we landing here?

[11:43] Like how are we seriously landing on Toy Story 4, The Godfather, Elton John, and Avatar? Those are

[11:53] four of the weirdest things to land on. And the worst lineup I can think about when you think about

[12:01] four games in a row. Has any company released four games in a row that are that freaking questionable

[12:09] other than a company that I will not mention anymore? I don't get it. And this was supposed to be the week

[12:16] where we were supposed to get excited about X-Men from Stern Pinball. And now all of a sudden,

[12:23] this move by Jersey Jack makes me more excited for X-Men, for Jack Danger's next game. I mean,

[12:30] the greatest marketing that Stern Pinball has ever done is simply allow Jersey Jack Pinball to make

[12:37] the most idiotic decisions. Because every time Jersey Jack does this, what does it do? It just

[12:43] reinforces why you choose Stern Pinball over Jersey Jack Pinball. And look, I'm just going to say

[12:50] this Guns N' Roses is the last great, amazing game I think we're ever going to get from Jersey

[12:57] Jack. I just don't think they know how to put it together. I really don't. I don't think they're

[13:01] ever going to have a moment like the moment when Slash walked through the door and handed them everything

[13:07] to the Guns N' Roses band. I don't think we're ever going to have a play field or a game when you

[13:12] look down at it. It perfectly nails the theme integration like Guns N' Roses. And I don't think

[13:18] Jersey Jack gets it. They were the coolest company ever when Slash from Guns N' Roses was over there

[13:25] and they had a hit and they've done nothing since. And so now we're like four years later

[13:33] and we get Avatar. And what makes me so sad is this is a company that only releases one game a year.

[13:41] And so now the only thing we're going to get from Jersey Jack for the next 365 days is going to be

[13:52] Avatar. Distributors and dealers trying to shove it down our throats. Emails spamming us that it's a hit.

[14:00] And good luck trying to sell Avatar for 15,000 a pop. Good luck trying to sell this game for 12,5.

[14:08] It does not have the emotional connection that people have to Jaws or X-Men or Star Wars or

[14:15] Stranger Things or Guns N' Roses. Heck, even Elton John. Elton John fans are much more into Elton

[14:23] John. I've never met anyone who's like a diehard Avatar fan. You know what I'm saying? It's just

[14:29] like one of those things that we all see because it's a spectacle. We can spend $30 a seat at the

[14:35] movies and if we go to Disney we'll jump on the ride but it's not something you see people really

[14:41] brag about loving anywhere else. And that's a problem. People rock Cobra Kai t-shirts all over the

[14:50] world. There are more Cobra Kai t-shirts all over the world than there will ever be of Avatar t-shirts.

[14:58] And that's my take on this whole thing people. I'm deflated. I won't be buying this game. I think

[15:04] for a lot of us we're kind of laughing because our money is now marked safe from Jersey Jack

[15:10] Pinball. And I think overall this hobby is really disappointing. I'm really over the lack of market

[15:18] research. I'm over these like mediocre themes. I'm tired of none of these companies giving us what

[15:27] we really want. Let me just tell you this. I've seen some of Back to the Future. That's the game

[15:33] all of you should be waiting for. It's coming and it's coming from Dutch Pinball with Bob Gale,

[15:40] the executive producer. It's going to have all the assets from all three movies. It's going to have

[15:47] mechanisms that are awesome. It's going to have a display that's amazing. And I know it's coming.

[15:54] So I'm going to save my money for something like Back to the Future. Jersey Jack Pinball's Avatar

[16:01] is a great way to sell more Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. I'm serious. Like if it was Matrix,

[16:09] I'd be worried if I was Melvin. But Avatar, all of a sudden I would rather have Alice than Avatar.

[16:17] I mean it. I would absolutely rather have Alice than Avatar. It's going to come down to this.

[16:23] There's going to be a moment where I really think Brett needs to step up here. And Brett Abbas is

[16:28] Leonard's son. Because I think Brett and Ken Cromwell. I mean this. It's like I'm looking to them.

[16:35] Like they're the younger part of this equation. I think Jack and Leonard have no idea what they're

[16:41] doing. And I think they need to call a meeting and get some people in there with some youth,

[16:47] some vitality, and someone who has their finger on the pulse of what Pinball people want. I already

[16:56] called up my source and he knows who he is who said it's the Matrix. I'm going to guarantee it.

[17:03] And it's like I'm tired of all this. I'm tired of being disappointed. We all wanted it to be the

[17:10] Matrix. And now we're disappointed. Is anyone happy? Is anyone like I was hoping it was going to be

[17:15] Avatar? The only person who was hoping it was going to be Avatar is named George Gomez. And you know

[17:22] this is the greatest news ever. You know where they're having a party tonight? You know where

[17:27] they're popping champagne is over at Spooky Pinball and Barrels of Fun. Because those two companies

[17:35] now it's your chance. Like this is your chance. You're going to have another dud theme from Jersey

[17:42] Jack for an entire year. X-Men comic book is not going to fly off the shelf. This is your winter.

[17:50] And for the company that I won't mention that's like we're going to delay our launch because we

[17:54] don't want to get lost in all of it. Well now's your chance because you're not going to get lost

[18:00] in X-Men and Avatar. Like those are two themes we've already seen. Those are two themes that are

[18:07] not going to light the Pinball world on fire. And so if you're Spooky Pinball you better not release

[18:14] Motorhead. Like if that's what you're going to come out with think again. And if I'm Spooky Pinball

[18:20] and I've got Beetlejuice drop it now. Get it out when the new movie is out. If I'm Spooky Pinball

[18:30] and I've got Sonic the Hedgehog now's a good time to hit. If I'm Spooky Pinball and I've got

[18:36] Gremlins now's a good time to hit. But don't come out with Evil Dead and don't come out with freaking

[18:43] Motorhead. That's not what you do. We are at a point now in Pinball where everyone is fed up with

[18:50] these bone headed moves. It makes no sense. I'm so disappointed that we're getting another Avatar

[19:01] game. We already have one. Yes we already had a Guns N' Roses game. It's different when you do it

[19:08] with music but Avatar Jersey Jack's going to learn a lesson. It's the same way The Hobbit was a

[19:16] multi-billion dollar movie franchise and the films sucked. And nobody thinks fondly on The Hobbit.

[19:25] We only think fondly of The Lord of the Rings movies. And this is why Jack Winari and Leonard

[19:34] Abbas, you know, they don't need the money. They don't need it to work. This is what we're getting.

[19:41] And this is deflating. I'm deflated. I as a content creator and a lover of Pinball,

[19:48] I wanted this to be Matrix. I wanted it to be maybe a surprise like Top Gun or Karate Kid.

[19:55] I didn't want it to be this. And so I sign off tonight deflated by Stern's marketing moves of

[20:02] recent deflated by Jersey Jack's inability to make themes we want deflated by Chicago Gaming

[20:10] Company making us wait over two years for a game that is just a single level game. It's just not

[20:16] worth it people. If they keep doing this, I mean it. We're all just gonna like play the games we have,

[20:23] talk to each other and laugh at these idiotic decisions and just find other hobbies or just

[20:30] put our money away for a rainy day. That's where I'm at. Am I wrong? Are you excited about an avatar?

[20:36] Does anyone out there? I have like over 700 listeners. Do any of you even own an avatar t-shirt?

[20:42] I bet you don't. And that is it people. You can't name four characters from the movie. You have no

[20:50] idea what the heck the Hallelujah Mountains are. And you've never seen anyone in the last year

[20:56] wear an avatar t-shirt. This game is gonna be dead on arrival. You heard it here first later.

[21:26] The bubbles burst and I don't want to get out.
