# Transcript: 2024-12-05_Episode 1030 KONG.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-18 05:11  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 23:40

---

[00:00] Welcome everybody to Canada's Pinball Podcast.

[00:19] One word, well maybe two words, Kong and Elwyn.

[00:24] That is what I'm hearing that King Kong will be the next game from Stern Pinball.

[00:29] It is not going to be Dungeons and Dragons, it is going to be on Spike 3, there's going

[00:35] to be a price increase of $600 I'm hearing and we're going to see it probably in the

[00:43] next four to six weeks.

[00:46] Remember that X-Men came out September 4th so we are due for Stern's next blockbuster.

[00:53] Are they going to make it a Christmas gift to everybody in the Pinball community?

[00:59] I know a price increase is the last thing you want to hear.

[01:02] I was thinking about it, it's like buying a Stern Keith L and L.E. now.

[01:07] It's kind of like sending your kid to college.

[01:11] Everybody wants to do it but you don't want to spend the money and this is where we're

[01:16] at so we're going to talk about what this move means that the big gorilla is up next

[01:22] from Stern.

[01:23] Now we all knew it was coming, this is not a surprise to anybody, it's really hard for

[01:27] Stern to have any surprise games.

[01:29] We knew X-Men, we knew about Foo Fighters, we know about everything because it's such

[01:34] a big organization.

[01:35] A lot of loose lips, a lot of people know people who work at Stern and so we've heard people

[01:40] say that Keith L and L is the king of the monsters.

[01:43] You just heard that theme song from the original King Kong movie.

[01:47] I think it's going to be based on Old Kong.

[01:50] I think it kind of has to be, maybe they're going to get clips from the movies over the

[01:54] years.

[01:55] I highly doubt we're going to see what it was at the Jeff Bridges movie where the twin

[01:59] towers are the buildings he climbs.

[02:02] I doubt we're going to see that for reasons of sensitivity but King Kong is going to be

[02:08] huge.

[02:09] For those of you out there, there's people on my Patreon that are like, this game's

[02:13] not going to sell out.

[02:14] I'm going to tell you right now.

[02:15] Let's just stop being foolish.

[02:17] Keith L N is the best pinball designer maybe of all time.

[02:22] He sells 40% of Stern's machines.

[02:26] I'm going to say something crazy right now.

[02:28] If it were not for Keith L N, I think pinball wouldn't look like what it does today.

[02:34] It would not have survived all these price increases.

[02:39] His games have been the only ones that have held value in the modern pinball world unless

[02:45] you're going to remake Metallica.

[02:48] Just listen to me for a minute right now.

[02:50] Foo Fighters right now.

[02:51] A Foo Fighters LE with the $2,000 topper and all the other accessories.

[02:59] You can go get it.

[03:00] I think Zach is selling one.

[03:02] You can go get it right now in perfect condition for $10,000.

[03:08] A $5,000 or more loss for someone who fully accessorized a Foo Fighters LE.

[03:16] Try to go find a single Jaws LE for sale.

[03:21] There is not a single one.

[03:24] Try to go find a Godzilla LE for anywhere near what it originally cost at $10,500.

[03:31] I know you don't want this game to be expensive.

[03:35] Neither do I.

[03:36] I know some of you are rooting for Stern not to sell out of a thousand LE's on day

[03:42] one because it will send them a message that we've had enough.

[03:47] Yes, that is true on games like Venom, on games like John Wick, on games like Dungeons

[03:54] and Dragons.

[03:56] Most of these B themes, not in a million years, will they ever hold value?

[04:01] Does it make sense to make a thousand LE's?

[04:04] When it comes to Keith Elwyn, King Kong, which is a more iconic IP in the United States of

[04:12] America than Godzilla, when it comes to Spike 3 with more upgrades, enhanced screen, better

[04:19] sound system, better lighting, everything that comes along with Spike 3, are we surprised

[04:25] they're going to raise the prices?

[04:27] They're putting more into the games.

[04:29] Is it going to justify a $600 increase?

[04:34] It's funny because Pimbal prices only make sense in a vacuum and in a bubble because

[04:40] that's the price of a PlayStation 5 or Xbox.

[04:44] No, they're not going to give you $600 worth.

[04:48] They're going to make $600 more on probably another $200 that they put into the game.

[04:54] I would love to know the bomb on a modern Stern.

[04:58] If any of us knew the bomb on a modern Stern, we wouldn't buy any of this.

[05:04] There would be no way to justify it, right?

[05:06] I saw people speculating what they think the bomb is on that Metallica topper.

[05:11] I'm going to tell you right now, you people are so far off.

[05:15] The bomb on that topper is less than $100.

[05:19] Someone was like, I bet it cost Stern $500 to make that topper.

[05:22] Are you guys out of your minds?

[05:25] $500 to make that topper.

[05:28] There's no moving parts.

[05:30] There's absolutely nothing of cost in that topper whatsoever.

[05:35] Nothing is cheap.

[05:37] Plastic is cheap.

[05:38] Metal screws are cheap.

[05:40] $100 and they're selling it for $900.

[05:43] It's where the margins lie.

[05:45] Let's get back to King Kong.

[05:46] Why did Dungeons and Dragons not make it out now?

[05:49] Now I think for a few reasons.

[05:51] It's Brian Eddy.

[05:52] He typically takes a longer time than most people to get his games to market.

[05:57] I think the real reason why we are seeing King Kong now and not Dungeons and Dragons,

[06:04] if you look at Stern right now, their last cornerstone game was X-Men.

[06:11] That game is not doing very well.

[06:14] It is plagued with issues and I don't think there's ever going to be a solve that makes

[06:21] that game what it should have been.

[06:24] Before X-Men, we had John Wick.

[06:26] Stern is such a big company that having back to back games be sort of mediocre at best.

[06:33] John Wick was a flop and it's the end of the year.

[06:37] Every company wants to finish strong and every company wants to go into the new year with

[06:42] some momentum and that's just how companies operate.

[06:45] You want to finish strong and you want to start the new year on a good note.

[06:50] If Dungeons and Dragons came out and it didn't do very well, Keith Owens, they're a slugger.

[06:57] He's their slugger.

[06:58] If we use a baseball metaphor and you need some runs right now, you need some sales,

[07:03] you need a hit game, who are you going to hand the bat to and send to the plate, you're

[07:08] going to send Keith Owens.

[07:09] The reason why Keith Owens is so good, it's not just Keith Owens.

[07:13] It's his whole team.

[07:15] He's by far got the best team surrounding him.

[07:19] Stern Pimball is smart.

[07:21] You guys think they're not.

[07:22] They're very smart.

[07:23] Seth is smart.

[07:24] George is smart.

[07:25] They know that this is their guy.

[07:27] This is their ringer.

[07:28] That's why his games are exponentially better than most everybody else's in the entire industry

[07:35] because what he brings to Pimball is much more than just layout.

[07:40] If you want just layout, you go get a Steve Ritchie game.

[07:44] What Keith Owens brings to the table besides a great layout, you know the game's going

[07:49] to shoot well.

[07:50] You know it's going to have unique layout and creative shots and combos and be satisfying

[07:55] for a very long time.

[07:57] It's not going to be cookie cutter.

[07:59] It's going to have a lot of replay value.

[08:01] He also has a knack for putting fun toys and mechs into his games.

[08:05] They're in there.

[08:06] Yes, I kind of maybe do believe him that the shark eating the ball did not make the game

[08:12] that much fun.

[08:13] Actually, I'm going to go back on that.

[08:14] No, how do you not have jaws eat the ball?

[08:18] Still one of the biggest mech mistakes in all of the Pimball, but Jurassic Park is amazing.

[08:23] Godzilla is amazing.

[08:24] Godzilla is still number one in many people's minds and it's right now currently sitting

[08:29] as the number one game of all time ranked by Pimball enthusiasts, by modern Pimball enthusiasts.

[08:37] And so when I think about King Kong and this King of the Monsters and Keith Owens and as

[08:42] I was saying, it's not just about the layout.

[08:45] The reason why he's so damn good is he also thinks about the rule set and the journey

[08:52] and he designs the whole game in his head.

[08:54] He's not just thinking about the layout.

[08:56] He's like, what's the experience going to be like?

[08:59] If I'm making a roller coaster ride, what's the journey going to be like?

[09:03] You know, I want people to feel certain things as they go through my game.

[09:07] I don't think that happened with Jack Danger and Wison on X-Men.

[09:11] Doesn't feel like that at all.

[09:13] It feels like Jack designed such an amazing layout and him and Wison weren't on the same

[09:18] page and Wison couldn't deliver and execute what was in Jack's head.

[09:24] But when it comes to Keith Owens, when he's thinking about layout, when he's thinking

[09:29] about like design and the experience, he's thinking about the modes, he's thinking about

[09:34] the music, he's thinking about the moments of wow and he's leading a team of people that

[09:40] are all on the same page.

[09:43] Maybe the best metaphor is looking at Keith Owens not as a Pimball designer, but as a

[09:48] conductor standing over in orchestra and he's waving his hand and everybody knows when

[09:56] to build upon his design.

[09:59] That is why Keith Owens games are what people love.

[10:03] It is why Keith Owens is maybe the best Pimball designer of all time because he sees all of

[10:09] it and he thinks about the angle on all of it.

[10:13] I was a little nervous last night and I was like, well, is King Kong going to be as good

[10:17] as Godzilla?

[10:19] It's not as much fun.

[10:20] It's not as campy.

[10:21] I mean, think about King Kong as a movie in comparison to all the Godzilla movies.

[10:28] In Godzilla movies, if you're a Godzilla fan, Godzilla usually comes out of the ocean.

[10:34] He sort of stomps on all the tanks and destroys all the buildings and we know there's a rubber

[10:40] guy in the suit doing all this comical stuff in most of those movies.

[10:45] He's got a baby Godzilla, he dances around, he flies through the air and he always survives.

[10:51] They never really kill Godzilla.

[10:53] Even when they stop him, he comes back and that's what makes Godzilla so much fun.

[10:58] I mean, heck, Godzilla even made a cameo appearance in Pee Wee's Big Adventure.

[11:04] He's just this campy, iconic monster that even though we're supposed to be terrified

[11:09] of him and he terrorizes the people of Japan, he kind of makes everybody else just smile.

[11:15] In the absurdity of it all.

[11:18] And then when you play the Godzilla pinball machine, I think it captures that perfectly.

[11:22] And also Godzilla has an amazing theme song.

[11:25] He's got the energy.

[11:27] It's perfect for pinball.

[11:28] And then I think about King Kong.

[11:31] Totally different story.

[11:33] It's not really as fun.

[11:35] It's not really as campy.

[11:37] In fact, King Kong is a love story.

[11:39] It's a tragedy.

[11:41] It's a story of a big gorilla on an island that just wants to be left alone, who falls

[11:47] in love with a beautiful woman and just wants to protect her as humans want to parade him

[11:53] around like a sideshow freak.

[11:56] That's the story of King Kong.

[11:58] He climbs to the top of the Empire State Building because it's the only thing that reminds him

[12:04] of home.

[12:06] And he's up there.

[12:07] And what do we do?

[12:08] We send airplanes after him and we shoot him time and time again until he's shot dead

[12:15] and falls down and dies on the pavement of New York City.

[12:21] That's the story of King Kong.

[12:23] It's a tragedy.

[12:25] Now I was like, how are they going to make that work?

[12:27] How are they going to make that pinball game fun?

[12:30] And you know what?

[12:31] I'm not nervous anymore because I know Keith Elwin is going to find the right angle to do

[12:36] it right.

[12:37] Are you going to play as King Kong?

[12:39] Maybe.

[12:40] I think in Godzilla you play as Godzilla.

[12:42] But I also think King Kong is a game where you can make it all about high energy.

[12:47] You can kind of create the vibes of like a Jurassic Park.

[12:51] You know, there's a large gorilla on this island and you got to find him.

[12:54] Like that's part of the adventure.

[12:56] And then you got to find him and then you got to put him on the boat.

[13:00] And then you got to put him on the boat and take him to New York City and do all the stuff

[13:03] he does there.

[13:04] You got to stop him and save the girl when he gets to the top of the building.

[13:08] So maybe the angle is you're sort of an observer on the crew that's trying to capture King

[13:15] Kong.

[13:16] But I think maybe the more fun angle is going to be you play as Kong and all these humans

[13:21] are trying to trap you and you're trying to swat down the airplanes and you're trying

[13:26] to escape and you're trying to do this and that.

[13:28] I think that's going to be the angle because also remembering a lot of the other King Kong

[13:32] movies and almost every single one.

[13:34] He's doing something that Godzilla does that is actually the foundation for most of the

[13:38] code in Godzilla.

[13:40] King Kong is battling other creatures.

[13:44] And if you go back and watch the old King Kong movies, the Mighty Joe Young movies, he's

[13:48] always battling large creatures on Skull Island.

[13:53] So I think most of this game will be Kong on Skull Island battling other large creatures.

[14:02] You play as King Kong and what I think they're going to do, I think that's going to be the

[14:07] setup of King Kong and what I think they might do.

[14:10] You know how Keith Elwin has like the throwback Jaws code, like Jaws Revenge that feels like

[14:15] an 80s video game.

[14:17] I think they might do like a throwback King Kong mode where you play the original movie

[14:24] and go up the top of the Empire State Building.

[14:27] And I think that could be a really cool thing.

[14:30] If this game does not have a topper that features the Empire State Building and King Kong on

[14:36] it and airplanes swinging around.

[14:40] When I was a little kid, I bought a Snoopy in an airplane swinging around my ceiling

[14:45] fan for like 50 bucks.

[14:48] If they don't make a topper that's going to cost us one to $2,000 that features that.

[14:54] What are we even doing here in this pinball hobby?

[14:58] I was also wondering, you know, who's going to do the artwork on King Kong?

[15:02] Is it going to be Zombie Yeti?

[15:04] I mean, he did Godzilla, but he also just did X-Men.

[15:09] I don't know.

[15:10] I don't know who it's going to be.

[15:12] You know, Kong's got a lot of source material from over the years.

[15:16] Personally, just this is me.

[15:17] This is me saying this personally.

[15:19] I really hope if they make a King Kong machine.

[15:23] I don't know if Yeti is the right style for Kong because I just feel like Kong should

[15:29] look more like the classic movie posters.

[15:33] I really do.

[15:34] I don't think you want to see more of like a more contemporary illustrated Kong that

[15:40] looks a little bit more cartoony.

[15:42] I don't think that's the timeless iconic sort of imagery of Kong that everybody wants.

[15:51] We shall see what happens in the art department.

[15:53] I'm sure it's going to look great.

[15:55] Stern knows this game is really important.

[15:58] Now for you out there that is like, wait and see.

[16:01] And I said this to everybody.

[16:02] This is why I would have waited on Evil Dead.

[16:05] You're easily going to be able to get one.

[16:08] And by the time Spooky's made a few hundred, you're going to be able to cut the line on

[16:13] everybody else who's waiting.

[16:15] Avatar is dead on arrival.

[16:17] This is terrible news for Avatar CEO owners.

[16:20] I mean it when I say it and I try to warn each and every one of you.

[16:23] I know you want your Avatar CE.

[16:26] You are now committed to spending $15,000 on one.

[16:30] By March of 2025, your Avatar CE will be the easiest game to get for $10,000 new inbox if

[16:40] they make all thousand of those games.

[16:43] Your game has lost.

[16:44] Your game has lost $5,000 in value.

[16:48] You just don't know it yet.

[16:50] And why would you even order one?

[16:53] They haven't even made a single one.

[16:55] They haven't spoken to you since they took your money.

[16:59] They haven't shown you that they have fixed the UV light issue because you know what they

[17:04] have not.

[17:05] Have you seen the UV ink and how it works on your $15,000 non-refundable game?

[17:12] You have not.

[17:14] Why do you think they've gone dark on it because they don't have a solution for it?

[17:19] We're now seeing some Elton John CE playfields are falling apart.

[17:23] I don't even want to go down that road.

[17:25] Here we go again.

[17:26] Right?

[17:27] I mean that's it with Mirko.

[17:28] Here we go again.

[17:29] And I tell everyone wait and see.

[17:31] Wait and see.

[17:32] All these games are losing money.

[17:33] I've never seen a hobby like Pinball where in just a few years everything went from holding

[17:39] value and going up in value to significant losses on 90% of the product.

[17:45] If 90% of the stocks in the stock market lost the amount of money that these games are now

[17:53] losing, nobody would invest in the stock market.

[17:58] Nobody would buy into it.

[18:00] And that's what's happening with Pinball.

[18:02] People are just going to stop buying into new inbox as they keep looking at everything

[18:07] losing money.

[18:08] I'm talking to collectors now and people who used to buy every single game.

[18:13] They bought every new thing that came out.

[18:15] They went in on everything and now they're not buying any new inbox anymore.

[18:19] They're not going to stop buying Pinball.

[18:22] They're just going to let the suckers run in and take the big hit and then they'll go

[18:26] buy the game six months down the road, a year down the road when the code's complete, when

[18:31] all the bugs have been ironed out and they're going to save themselves $3,000 to $5,000.

[18:36] I mean that's what the smart man does.

[18:38] But here's my final point on this game.

[18:41] If you want a Keith L. N. King Kong LE, you can't wait and see.

[18:48] They're going to sell out day one.

[18:51] I'm on a list to get one and so should you.

[18:54] I would hit up Melissa at CoinTaker, hit up Zach Many, hit up Nitro, hit up everybody

[19:01] you know.

[19:02] Just get on a list.

[19:03] Just get on a list.

[19:04] No harm, no foul.

[19:05] At this stage, they're not going to take any money.

[19:08] So hit up Mike at Automated.

[19:10] By the way, I'm going to be at Automated Pinball this weekend doing my Saturday show live from

[19:16] Automated Pinball.

[19:18] If you're anywhere near the Northeast, you guys should come to Automated Pinball, hang

[19:24] out at Mike's place and let's see if we can get him to create a King Kong LE list and maybe

[19:31] everyone who's there gets to be on the list.

[19:34] We'll see.

[19:35] I'll talk to him about it.

[19:36] I haven't run that by him yet.

[19:37] But just get on a list.

[19:38] Because I'm telling you right now, even if this game is $13,600, it's going to sell out.

[19:46] It's just one of those iconic themes and I don't think Stern has a ton of iconic stuff

[19:51] coming.

[19:52] I think they're in a little bit of a weird place right now.

[19:55] I really do.

[19:56] I feel like Elwynn Matters and everything else right now is an easy wait and see and that's

[20:01] not good for Stern.

[20:03] This company was built on FOMO and day one sellouts of every LE.

[20:09] But trust me, don't sleep on this.

[20:11] And I'm going to say this right now.

[20:12] You might as well grab a King Kong LE even if you don't want to keep it.

[20:16] Yeah, Big Bad Canada, inspiring people to sort of speculate a little bit again.

[20:22] Good.

[20:23] We need more speculation.

[20:24] We need to see some games go up in value.

[20:26] If we don't see that, then this entire hobby is not going to survive.

[20:30] If you think otherwise, if you think a hobby like this with a non-essential toy that costs

[20:35] this much money can survive on every single game losing money, then you are rooting for

[20:41] the failure of pinball.

[20:42] You should be rooting for some games to go up on the secondhand market.

[20:46] And I know nobody loves scalping.

[20:48] It's part of a healthy collector market.

[20:50] If you try to remove that, look, if they really wanted to remove scalping, you can't do it.

[20:55] You can't remove scalping.

[20:57] It's just going to be part of it.

[20:58] All right, so that's my advice to each and every one of you.

[21:01] Get on a list.

[21:02] Don't sleep on it.

[21:04] You know, my condolences to everybody who has an Avatar CE.

[21:08] It's going to be one of the biggest sinking ships ever.

[21:11] And look, in just a few months, we're going to get Harry Potter, Jersey Jack, I don't know what to say.

[21:16] So when's there going to be a good time to release Cuphead?

[21:19] As American Pinball has been waiting for that window where Cuphead sales are going to take off.

[21:25] We don't want to get lost amongst these big games.

[21:28] They made a mistake.

[21:29] They should have launched Cuphead against Avatar and X-Men.

[21:33] So what?

[21:33] You're going to try to sneak that game in between King Kong and Harry Potter?

[21:38] Between Keith Elwyn and Eric Minier's Harry Potter?

[21:40] And those two games are going to have enough sales to sort of eat up everybody's money and space over the next six months.

[21:48] Because everyone's out of space.

[21:50] Let's be honest.

[21:51] I mean, it's not just the money.

[21:52] Yeah, the money sucks.

[21:53] These prices all suck for everybody.

[21:56] But most of you are just out of space.

[21:58] And that is why this hobby is going to struggle to grow.

[22:01] You just can't keep pumping out like six to ten games a year.

[22:05] There's no room for them.

[22:07] And heck, I know each and every one of you are feeling it.

[22:10] Everywhere you go.

[22:11] The bill is so much higher than it used to be.

[22:14] Inflation is crazy.

[22:16] We're not nearly as wealthy as we were five years ago.

[22:20] It's just reality for everybody.

[22:22] And these games are 40% more money.

[22:25] It's just stupid.

[22:25] It's all stupid.

[22:26] Um, everybody, I want to end this show on a sad note.

[22:30] It is with great heavy heart.

[22:32] We heard the news yesterday that Todd Tucky's beautiful wife passed away.

[22:36] Todd, we are thinking about you.

[22:39] You're in our thoughts and our prayers.

[22:41] I was hoping to see Todd Saturday at Automated.

[22:44] I don't know if he'll make it, but Todd, I know I can speak for everybody in this hobby.

[22:49] That we love you.

[22:50] We're thinking about you.

[22:52] And we know this is a devastating time.

[22:54] And if there's anything you need from me or anybody in this hobby, you know, just reach

[22:59] out and we will be there.

[23:01] Everybody count your blessings.

[23:02] Every day above ground is a good day.

[23:05] Life is way too short.

[23:07] What makes it valuable are the relationships we have with the people we love.

[23:12] That is it.

[23:13] These machines don't love you.

[23:15] They're not going to tell stories about you.

[23:17] They are not your legacy.

[23:19] Your home arcade is not your family.

[23:22] The most important thing in life is family, loyalty, and love.

[23:27] And I mean that.

[23:28] And I know all of you know that too.

[23:30] Very smart people in this hobby.

[23:32] Very smart people in this hobby.

[23:34] Except for the people who bought Avatar CE.

[23:37] Everybody have a great day.

[23:39] We'll talk to you soon.
