# Transcript: 2024-04-27_4.27 Saturday Morning Spectacular Audio.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-18 04:02  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 1:25:17

---

[00:00] It's over. When you see my face, I hope it gives you hell, people. We're talking Saturday morning.

[00:08] We're talking spectacular. We're talking we're going to drop some truth bombs on this episode.

[00:14] It's going to make you all, even Billy B, throw some stars into the mix, people. It's not going to

[00:20] be pretty today. I just got back from the gym. We're a couple days away from a new member of the

[00:26] Canada family. The baby is coming any minute now, any second now, and we're going to drop it like it's

[00:35] hot. We're going to get to 100 people easily because once we start talking the way we're going to talk

[00:41] on this episode of it's just going to be like, you got to go tune in now. He's saying stuff. Go get

[00:47] your sneakers ready, Marty. Go get Damien. Somebody wake up Damien. It's not going to be pretty.

[00:53] Somebody go tell Nitro when flipping out. He's going to start talking about distros. He's going

[00:59] to start talking about everything. We're going to drop it on this Saturday morning's spectacular.

[01:05] A level of candidness, a level of truth that we just need to get out in the open because

[01:13] I feel like this, this hobby's turned into a bunch of Irish mums, especially the content creators,

[01:18] just brushing everything under the rug. I'm having great conversations with my boy Jason Knapp.

[01:26] If you knew half of what goes on behind the scenes in this pinball hobby, it's going to be eye opening.

[01:32] No more excuses, no more BS, no more spin, no more shilling, no more guessing game. It's so clear now

[01:42] where we're at. We're at a point now of inflection in this hobby where the clowns

[01:49] and the lies and the deception and the manipulation, we can see through it now. It's so obviously,

[01:56] you can't miss it. You can't miss what's going on in this hobby. We're going to talk about what's

[02:02] going on with all the manufacturers, but then we're going to just get into the heart of what I really

[02:08] want to talk about, one of which, and I'm just warning you right now, people, one of which

[02:15] is going to be pinball machines in front of windows. We're going to talk about it because some of you

[02:21] don't seem to understand that you don't put pinball machines in front of windows. I don't care if it's

[02:27] a basement window. We're going to talk about it. I'm not even going to get into it now. It's going

[02:31] to get me too upset. It's going to get me too upset. Your wives are disgusted with you. If you

[02:38] think your wives think that looks good, they know it doesn't look good. They have to put up with your

[02:43] pinball collection because you force them to. Women don't put pinball machines in front of windows

[02:51] because they have style, they have taste, they have Feng Shui, they know what a home should look like.

[02:57] It doesn't matter if you have a UV protector and I'm not talking about next to a window. We're

[03:02] going to talk about it later. I'm not going to talk about it right now. I'm not going to talk about

[03:07] it right now. Okay, big window here. See that? No pinball machine in front of it. No pinball

[03:15] machine in front of it, people. All right. If I had a pinball machine, it goes against that wall

[03:21] and that wall. Real easy, Chico's. Real easy. Don't be stupid. Hey, a room is not. How many pins can

[03:30] we possibly fit in it? See, you got me going already. You got me going. We're only like two,

[03:34] three minutes in. We're going to let more people join. We're going to let more people get into the

[03:39] house. Go tell your TPN friends. Go tell Don to stop making videos about installing mods. We don't

[03:47] care. Get Don over here. All right. Come on, Don. It's time to bury the hatchet. Nobody cares anymore.

[03:53] This silly feud. Come on, brother. You're making $360 a month. I want to congratulate you on the

[03:59] Patreon. It's good. It's good. We're only making over 10 times that. But look, what do I know?

[04:05] What do I know? You can put on the feet glasses, but when you put on the real glasses,

[04:10] then you're making 10 times more. And look, it's just a side hustle. It's just anyone else four

[04:15] hours a week, four hours a week for 50 grand. That's not bad. It's not bad. It's not bad for time,

[04:23] equals value, equals money. But look, look, we're going to collect some stars. We got a

[04:28] goal of $10,000. Let's show everybody. Let's show them how we can rally around.

[04:33] Canade a drop in truth bombs. And here's the thing. Here's the thing. If we get to a certain

[04:38] amount of stars, the more we get to, the more I'll give you. That's just the way it works. And we

[04:43] started this whole thing. We started it all. Remember when we started Patreon, Jengiz? Remember

[04:49] when I said I'm going to go behind the paywall? Remember when everyone made fun of me for two

[04:53] years? How dare you do that? He's a loser. He's not into pinball. He doesn't know what he's talking

[04:59] about. He will never do that. I mean, these people said, we'll never go behind the paywall.

[05:06] Everybody now. Everybody. Oh yeah. Here's half my show. The other half you have to go pay to listen

[05:13] to. I mean, about how annoying that is. Who thought that was good marketing? It's not working.

[05:19] It's not working. How can you have 6,000 listeners, 6,000 listeners and only 90 sign up?

[05:27] That's a terrible conversion ratio. Terrible. Terrible. Terrible, terrible, terrible, terrible.

[05:36] Take it all behind. Take it all behind. You notice these people don't want to lose their

[05:40] influence because it's all just a sales channel. It's all just advertising. Everyone throwing ads

[05:47] for everybody. You know where there's no ads? Canadian Spinball Podcast. I'm not advertising a

[05:53] distributor. I'm not advertising some lighting system. I'm not advertising games I sell and then

[06:00] ragging on companies I don't sell. You see that? You notice that? You notice that? Did anyone get

[06:07] their paywall polo? Nobody. Nobody got their paywall polo. Nobody went on the show as a guest

[06:13] because they spent $100 a month. So you can create all these tiers. We're going to do this. We're

[06:18] going to do this. We're going to do this. And then you never deliver on it. That's what happens

[06:24] because this hobby allows people to say stuff and then not follow through. When Canadian Spinball

[06:31] Podcast says, I'm going to give you shows every single week. Do I deliver? When I say I'm going

[06:37] to go live every Saturday morning, do I deliver? Hell yeah. And here we are. 61 people. It's not

[06:44] much. Like pretty much nothing. 1500 people will watch us in the end. But we're going to have a

[06:48] juicy one today, people. So strap in, John. Strap in, Jengus. Strap in, Mark Henry. We're going to

[06:57] start by going around the horn a little bit. I need to get warmed up. I'm already warmed up.

[07:03] All right. I need to get warmed up and then we're going to get into it. We're going to get into

[07:09] how I feel about Haggis Pinball right now and this whole nonrefundable deposit scenario. And I am

[07:16] going to say stuff on this live that every single Pinball content creator should be saying. I'm going

[07:28] to say stuff on this live that every member of this community should be saying. And I am tired,

[07:34] I'm tired, ladies and gentlemen, of hearing people tell their stories of how they're getting ripped off

[07:44] in real time and this community doesn't have their back. And I'm tired of listening to Smug

[07:54] Ass Marty do a podcast in which he doesn't even address the issues with his own company. And I'm

[08:01] tired of it. Guys, it's over on this episode. This is the place where I don't care. Like,

[08:10] you can't hide, you can't run. We're going to hit you head on with what we're all feeling. And we're

[08:16] going to hear it. Marty, Damien, y'all, y'all better like y'all better get some popcorn ready

[08:24] because you're not going to be able to hide behind the corner, hide behind the curtain. We can see

[08:29] your shoes popping out with your no words BS because you're about to hear a lot of words

[08:35] that you should be hearing every day until you come out from behind your cowardly hiding act.

[08:42] You're sit like it's just I'm not going to go yet. I'm not going to go yet. We're going to wait.

[08:48] We're only like seven, eight minutes in it's too early. But you better ring those alarm bells in

[08:54] Australia because this stuff is about to pop. We're going to talk about John Wick. We're going to

[09:01] talk about Jersey Jack. I got information that you don't know. I got information on what the

[09:08] margins are on a Jersey Jack machine. Do you think they want you to know this?

[09:16] That you think they want you to know it? Like, what is the margin on a game?

[09:21] And when you start to understand, see, we're going to climb up to 100 as K&A

[09:25] to start to drop this fire because right now the phone hooks are ringing off and TPM, they're like,

[09:29] he's going. He said he wasn't going to do this, but he's going. You know why I'm going now? Baby

[09:36] number two is coming any day now. And you might not see me as much, but you're going to hear from me

[09:41] as much, but you might not see me as much, but I'm still going to do my weekly podcast and I'm still

[09:46] going to do my best to get you guys this show every Saturday morning. But we're reaching a point now

[09:52] in the pinball hobby where we're just going to have to put the truth on the table. Because if you

[09:58] think you're being ripped off by these modern pin prices, guess what? You are.

[10:04] But now you're going to have a little bit more information. And if you think Jersey Jack's margins

[10:09] are good, guess whose margins are even better? Can you take a guess? It starts with an S, it ends with

[10:16] an N, and all of a sudden this stuff matters. When you start to realize the margins on these machines

[10:24] and the prices of these machines, it makes you think twice, what am I spending this much for?

[10:31] Where's this money going? Is it going to R&D? Is it going to innovation? Or are we absolutely

[10:37] getting destroyed by the modern pinball pricing? You're all believing a lie. You've believed this

[10:44] lie that somehow throughout COVID, everything became so expensive. Yeah, it did. Everything

[10:49] became more expensive. But they've made efficiencies in making these games. And if you don't think so,

[10:58] all you got to do is lift up a Lord of the Rings and look underneath it. And lift up a Jaws and

[11:06] look underneath it. And I know that everybody would love you to believe that, like, oh, well,

[11:11] you know, shots are the new toys. And it's just, if it's fun, who cares? If it's fun, who cares? I'll

[11:15] pay anything if it's fun. It doesn't matter. That's what we want everyone to focus on. Focus on the

[11:19] fun. Focus on the fun. Don't make them think about the fact that a topper that is flat plastic is $2,000.

[11:26] Right? Stern makes those toppers in-house. Okay, cool. You think they're making those molds in

[11:30] house? No, those molds are not made in-house. That's Stern game ball. You can make those molds for

[11:35] nothing. They are simply screwing together plastic. And they charge you $2,000. And by the time I get

[11:41] going today, people are going to be at 100 people. They're all getting, they all have to wake up now.

[11:46] He's going. It's one of those Saturday mornings where Chris is not going to hold back the

[11:50] controversial Chris Caloris from New York City. That's my favorite part is when they say, hey,

[11:56] we're not going to call them Canada. We're going to call them Chris Caloris. Yeah, I'm not hiding who

[12:01] I am. Lift me up on LinkedIn, boys. You can see all my work. You can come check it out. We're confident.

[12:09] We're not worried about any of it. And I hope when you see my face, it gives you hell. All right?

[12:15] It gives you hell. Had a great work week working on Jane the Sand, working on what else are we

[12:22] doing right now? We're doing political ideas. We're doing a lot of fun stuff. Now I'm about to stop

[12:29] working because I'm about to go on paternity leave, but that's not going to stop me from

[12:34] checking in on what's going on in pinball. All right. The other thing I'm going to tell you guys,

[12:40] I'm going to tell you this at, I don't know, it would be kind of funny to hold this back

[12:48] unless we get a certain amount of stars because this, you'll understand why when we get to the

[12:54] topic, but I know now the mystery. Have you ever wondered what's the mystery behind Lloyd no longer

[13:05] working at Jersey Jack Pinball? Right? I was so like, this story's been like permeating for like

[13:12] years. Why doesn't Lloyd have a job anymore with JJP as tech support? He's a great guy. He does all

[13:20] this stuff. And it was always like, well, why would they cut him loose if the community loves him

[13:25] and he does all this great work? Well, Canada knows why. And I'm going to tell you why on this

[13:33] episode of Canada's Saturday morning spectacular, but maybe only if we get to 10,000 stars. And you

[13:40] understand why I want to throw money into the mix to talk about this story when we get there.

[13:47] So look, look, I'm just saying it's when you hear the truth of it, it's actually really

[13:54] interesting because it's like, I feel like Lloyd's been parading around pinside like he's the victim.

[14:00] And I think when you hear this story, you're going to realize Lloyd's not the victim on this one.

[14:06] Right. And it's not like a terrible thing, but I'm just, I'm going to tell you,

[14:11] I don't really need to know, Joseph, it doesn't matter if you need to know,

[14:16] you're going to know, you know why? Because this story has been all throughout pinside for a couple

[14:22] years. And the truth is just going to set everybody free. It'll set Lloyd free. It'll set me free.

[14:28] It'll set you free. It'll set pinside free. It's not slander. It's nothing. It's just like,

[14:32] it just is what it is. It just is what it is. And I don't know, is it wrong to tell the truth?

[14:39] And look, this is not going to get anybody hurt. These podcasters put half their show behind the

[14:45] paywall. Yeah, I love it. I love it. Ari, look, you know, the thing is with the paywalls, you

[14:52] can't go half behind, you know, you can't be half pregnant. Like you either got to go all in on it,

[14:58] or it doesn't work because then you're just annoying everybody. Thank you for the star, Scott.

[15:04] All right, let's start out. Let's start out with John Wick. Okay, let's start with like around the

[15:10] horn. So we got John Wick. It's coming next from Stern. Tim Sexton is 100% on code. It's 100%

[15:17] going to be John Wick. It is going to come out in the next two to three weeks. We might see a teaser

[15:22] next week. The game is coming out in May 100%. The designer of this game is someone who has never

[15:29] designed a game for from Stern pinball before, but it is someone who works at Stern. They are

[15:36] elevating someone within Stern pinball to be a new designer. So that is going to be interesting

[15:42] and fun to see what this person is capable of. It is a male. It is not a female. And so I know for a

[15:49] fact, I know people who know exactly who it is. They won't tell me the name because they don't want

[15:55] to spoil this person's like coming out party, if you will, like this is like their moment to sort

[16:01] of reveal themselves as a designer. It's not going to be Seth Davis. If this was Seth Davis, the game

[16:07] would just be a machine that shreds your money because that's all he's good for. Seth Davis has

[16:15] really destroyed pinball pricing. We're going to talk a little bit about that when we get to the

[16:20] margins, but it just is what it is. It's going to be interesting. So that's coming out in a few weeks.

[16:26] So when that happens, we're going to get a whole another level, a whole another level of conversation

[16:33] and debate about whether or not like this game is worth it. This is that John Wick is next. Okay,

[16:38] so that it is not Mike Vinichor. And it's there's no such person as Mike Vin decor.

[16:45] And it's Vinnie Vinacor K O U R's, you know, it's Mike Vinacor is not designing this game.

[16:55] 1000% here to tell you it is not Mike V or MKV, whatever people keep putting up as his initials.

[17:03] He is not designing this game. I guarantee you it is not him. Okay, so stop that rumor right now.

[17:11] Go to pin side. Be like, canada told us for free on his Saturday morning spectacular. I don't know

[17:16] why anyone listens to this guy. He just gives us all the information before everybody else.

[17:22] I still think John Wick is going to struggle. I don't think Stern's pricing model works very well.

[17:28] I think people are just getting into jaws. People are finally enjoying James Bond on

[17:33] Final Code. It's just too much. You can't ask these people to keep dropping 13 and $10,000 game after

[17:41] game after game after game, you know, you just can't do it people like three games, three stern

[17:46] lees with toppers and maybe some of you are paying tax, three stern lees now are setting people back

[17:54] $50,000 or more. Now you got to really understand what that number is $50,000 or more. You're going

[18:01] to spend on three stern lees. Now here's the problem with that. When you go to sell any of those,

[18:08] if you sell all three, you're losing at least $10,000. Right. If you option these things out,

[18:14] if you put toppers on it, accessories on it, it's just going to be bad, you know, John, let me tell

[18:21] you something. Any new pin is good for location. John, Abba would do well at Jack Bar. Abba would

[18:27] get more people to play it than fish tails. John, you know this. Like, I love you, John, but like

[18:33] operators like it would do well on location. It would like, come on man. Like, yeah, like, yeah,

[18:39] duh, duh. And no, John Wick would not do as well as Abba. It wouldn't. There is no way John Wick

[18:47] would do better than Abba on location. People on location, it's more fun to play a music pin

[18:53] than a code based thematic theme narrative driven game. It is no fun. I mean this when I say like

[19:01] on location, trying to play these mode based narrative pinball machines with deep rule sets,

[19:07] it's like, it's not that much fun. Like I got to be honest, like it's way more fun to play Elton John

[19:13] on location than Jaws because with Elton John, I don't need to be paying attention to what's going

[19:19] on in the storyline. I can just enjoy the lights and the scoring and the shots. But like when you

[19:24] play Jaws on location, you can't really hear it. You can't hear the call out. You're not getting

[19:29] into the modes. Like it doesn't work as well. It doesn't work as well. Everybody plays a new game

[19:36] once. It's about how many play more than once. John, Erlich, Mark the Date people,

[19:44] like make that quota t-shirt. Everybody plays a new game once. I'm going to tell you this right now,

[19:50] John. Everybody ain't playing barbecue challenge once. Everybody ain't playing Thunderbirds once.

[19:59] All right. Everybody. Everybody. You know, I could just see John Erlich back there and Jack

[20:04] Farr right now. Be like, get me everybody to play this pin. What do you mean everybody? Everybody.

[20:12] Everybody. Everybody's going to play it. Everybody in Williamsburg is playing that new pin. Everybody.

[20:21] We're so dramatic. Everybody. My gosh. Everybody. Okay. Everybody's playing it. All right.

[20:30] All right. So you want to know the margins on JJP? Should we just say it? Should we just say it?

[20:38] So I heard, again, like rumor might be right. Might be wrong, but this is coming from my best source

[20:45] in all the pinball. That the margins, and this makes sense, but the margins on a Jersey Jack machine

[20:53] are more than 50%. Okay. Which makes kind of sense when you think about it. So they've got a $15,000

[21:02] CE and a $12,000 Platinum. Now that means that the bomb on Elton John is probably somewhere in the

[21:14] vicinity of $6,000 or less. I would say the bomb on an Elton John is around five grand. Okay. So it

[21:25] costs them probably around $5,000 to make an Elton John. Now that's their cost. Now, of course,

[21:34] they want to make a good margin, but over 50% margin on an item like this is very high people.

[21:40] It is very high. So they're making roughly, I would say they're raking about $7,000 for a Platinum,

[21:50] and the CE is really where it just gets crazy, the margin, because you and I both know that there is

[21:58] not $3,000 in difference between a Platinum and a CE, right? That topper, you got to remember,

[22:05] that topper is using leftover screens that didn't get put into Toy Story 4. As you guys know this,

[22:14] right? The reason why there are those two screens that are just playing arbitrary things on Elton

[22:20] John, they're leftover parts from Toy Story 4. It goes to show you how they miscalculated the

[22:29] demand of Toy Story that they had all those parts left over. Because think about it. Think about

[22:36] like, that's, I mean, if there's a thousand CEs and there's two screens per CE, that's 2,000 screens

[22:44] they need to make those toppers. No, Bill. The margins don't depend on how well they sell.

[22:54] That doesn't make any sense, Bill. Bill, you're a businessman. Bill, the margin is,

[22:58] how much does it cost them to make it, and how much do they sell it for? That's the margin. What

[23:04] is sales volume have to do with margins at all? I, Bill, it doesn't have anything to do with margins.

[23:11] No, why would margins have to do with how many they sell?

[23:16] Explain this to me. I don't get it. If it costs them 5,000 to make everyone

[23:21] who cares if they sell 100 or 1,000, they're still making $7,000 margin on a Platinum and

[23:29] $10,000 margin on a CE. Why would the volume change that? Would it just make the bomb a little

[23:35] cheaper? I'm, because they're ordering more parts? I'm confused. We're talking margins here, Bill.

[23:46] Margins, Bill. Stick with it. Which is crazy, because if Jersey Jack's margins are that,

[23:51] what do you think the bomb is?

[23:59] Wait, what did John just say? If they sell more, they can order larger volume at bigger discounts.

[24:05] Yeah, I get that. I get that. So here's the thing too. It's like, I want to talk about something

[24:14] after this, and then we're going to get to Haggis, and then we're going to talk about pinballs in

[24:17] front of Windows, and then I'll tell you why Lloyd and JJP are not working together. The thing about

[24:24] this is, we all know, you have to base the beginning bomb on a game for Stern on the margin they're

[24:37] going to make on a Stern Pro. So let's start there. How much money do you think Stern makes,

[24:46] margin-wise, on a Stern Pro? I want to hear from you guys. What do you think it costs Stern

[24:54] to make every single Pro machine? No one else even has these conversations. It's like,

[25:00] the entire pinball content space doesn't even want to talk about value. It's just, let's keep

[25:06] pulling the wool over everyone's eyes by talking about fun.

[25:13] It's not 200%. I mean, I think you're looking, I think it's probably around the 50% mark.

[25:22] So I think a Stern Pro is probably costing Stern around $3,000 to make, maybe $3,500.

[25:35] I think they're okay having, I think the margin on the Pro is obviously the smallest margin they have,

[25:44] because I think they're okay with that because of the insane margin they're making on the LEs. I think

[25:51] the LE margin pays for all of the Pro and premium games to be built. I think that's how

[25:59] much money they're making on 1,000 LE sales is enough money to build every single Pro and premium

[26:08] and still make money. And I think that's why you're not getting more in the game.

[26:18] Now, do you guys even, does this even bother any of you? I'm just curious. I mean, it doesn't

[26:24] bother me because I'm not buying this stuff. It doesn't really bother me. I just would like to

[26:29] know, if I buy a $40,000 solid gold Rolex, that one of the reasons why it's $40,000 is just the

[26:40] value of the gold and also the value the watch will retain because of the demand in the market.

[26:49] And I'm just wondering, how long do you think the pinball hobby can continue to sort of usher

[26:57] out these games where clearly the bomb is very low? Clearly they found, they're going to find even

[27:04] more efficiencies with spike three and yet they're charging this much money. Now, when you guys say

[27:10] you're not really bothered by it, is that because the pricing doesn't bother you that you actually

[27:19] can easily buy 10 to $13,000 machines every three to four months and not even think about that in

[27:26] your, I'm just curious, like, because for some of you, that is the case.

[27:36] Yeah, I mean, the Rolex margins are crazy. A lot easier to ship them to and trade them.

[27:44] Am I the only one that wants pinball companies to make money and continue operating? So, John,

[27:49] John, why do you defend the 30 to 40% price increase, though? John, let me ask you a question.

[27:57] Were they not making money and being able to operate beautifully when an LE was 10.5

[28:04] and a premium was like 7,900? John, so they weren't making a ton of money then. They were.

[28:12] It's because John, there's a threshold where it's not about like, I want them to continue to operate

[28:19] versus jumping so far forward with pricing. It's no longer about being able to operate. It's about

[28:26] stuffing so much money in the pockets of just the investors, Seth Davis and Gary, and the money's

[28:34] not going into the machines or innovation. We all act like we're investors in stern.

[28:43] We're shareholders. If I was a shareholder of Stern Pinball, I would absolutely love what they're

[28:48] doing. If I was an investor in Stern Pinball, I would absolutely love what they're doing.

[28:52] But John, the other thing is this, and this is why operators don't get it. John, you're not

[28:57] buying a $13,000 James Bond LE and then like four months later, it's 10 grand. You're making money

[29:04] on your games every day you operate it. If you were a home collector, John, and you bought three

[29:09] Stern LEs in a row and you lost $10,000 in one year on value, you would think about this differently.

[29:17] You would. You wouldn't be like, oh man, I just, I don't mind losing all that money because I just

[29:21] want to make sure these companies are gainfully employed and continue to operate as I continue

[29:25] to lose 30% of my value. And John, if all they wanted to do was keep Pinball alive and well

[29:34] and keep the company profitable, they would just make one version of the game.

[29:39] They would just make one version of the game. Everyone can have it. There'll be no this

[29:42] bickering and back and forth and fleecing people for stickers and, you know, cheap upgrades to

[29:48] make something a collector's edition or an LE. But it is what it is. Look, I think you guys know

[29:55] where I stand on this. I don't mind if the prices get this high as long as the bomb continues to

[30:02] increase. But when you flip the hood open on an Elton John and as fun as the game is to shoot,

[30:08] it's got a third of what a game like Pirates has in it. And then you charge me almost twice as much

[30:14] money. It doesn't really work. It doesn't really work. But again, everyone is always going to come

[30:20] out and make excuses on behalf of the companies. And that is the state of Pinball. It is the state

[30:26] of Pinball. 95% of people will defend the companies at all costs. 95% of the content creators are on

[30:34] the side of the companies and the manufacturers. I don't think there's many people that are on the

[30:40] side of the consumer and the customer. I don't see many people being advocates for us getting more

[30:46] for the money. Here's another topic I want to talk about that makes no sense to me because I want to

[30:52] talk about margins and where the money is going. And the big difference, because I've been trying

[30:57] to figure out a way to talk about why does a distributor, why does a distributor who gets

[31:06] a game from Stern and then mails a game to you, why do they make $2,000 on that transaction?

[31:16] I don't think we should lose distributors. In fact, I think they should be more like car dealerships.

[31:21] But they're not allowed to operate like car dealerships because a car dealership I can walk into

[31:28] and they can give me the best price possible and they can bargain with a customer.

[31:36] And they know what their cost is. They're not going to sell below their cost,

[31:41] but they're allowed to bargain with the customer to get a sale between the MSRP and the dealer cost.

[31:50] But no pinball distributor on the planet is allowed to publicly bargain with a customer

[31:59] to find the right price. And here's what's happening now. Whereas a car dealership

[32:04] can actually adjust the price of last year's models to get them off the lot,

[32:11] a pinball distributor is not allowed to do that. So I have someone who I know is sitting on a like

[32:20] a hundred Guns and Roses LEs and they're not allowed to lower the price. Now every conversation has

[32:30] to be private. Every conversation has to be secret. It's money on the table. It's backdoor deals.

[32:36] But that's the issue I have is like, why should we all be paying $2,000 over what we would be able

[32:46] what we could get the game for if we just bought it directly? Right? There's no warranties on these

[32:52] games. There's nothing to come on like this whole world of like the reason why you go to a car

[32:57] dealership. What's the number one reason you go to a car dealership? Think about it. You go to a car

[33:04] dealership to get the best price on the car and then you go to a car dealership to bring the car

[33:10] back for things like oil changes and tire rotations and service and warranty on the entire car in

[33:20] case anything goes wrong. Okay. All right. Now look, distributors, the good ones, they have your back

[33:28] and if something goes wrong with the game, they're going to help you, you know, find the new node board

[33:33] or fix the issue. But for the most part, 90% of those games that a distro sells are not, are not

[33:44] requiring maintenance, part swaps, like any work whatsoever. And you guys see it like, and especially

[33:54] these LEDs that they're making the most money on because the guys don't even play them. You know,

[33:58] people turn on these LEDs and CEs and then like six years later, I got, I got 67 plays. So it's just

[34:05] money for nothing and the checks are free and it's like the weirdest, like, do you have to go to a

[34:11] distributor to buy an Xbox? Do you have to go to a distributor to buy a PlayStation? Do you have to go,

[34:19] like, I don't get it. And I, and I wish that dealers and distros have the ability to set the

[34:27] market price, which means I also wish like, it's got to go both ways because then they can market

[34:36] it just a game, which we know they've done. If a game is really popular and there's not allowed

[34:41] to man, they might list it over MSRP, right? It's called an, an ad, an ad, a dealer adjusted markup

[34:48] that happens in the auto world. It happens in the watch world, but they're not allowed to discount.

[34:53] And we've seen distros, you know, pull the fast ones where, oh, a year later, I found a,

[35:00] I found a Godzilla LE just, just where, where, how did you, you didn't have one and now you got one.

[35:09] And then they sold it for $19,000. You guys know who I'm talking about. And they sold it like,

[35:15] in this like buried version of their website, like in their vault, like it wasn't even on their main

[35:21] page. Like, oh yeah, like we got this in a trade. No, you didn't. No, you didn't. You held back your

[35:27] inventory and you played the market, which is fine. I think they should be allowed to do that

[35:35] without having to hide it. Again, this is not me slamming that distro behavior. It's me slamming

[35:41] a system that is clearly kind of outdated and broken. It's, it's not like they, these manufacturers

[35:50] have too much power over the distros. Like my distro friends should be allowed because here's why

[35:59] they should be allowed to sell games at market prices because the other thing that's, that's true

[36:06] is this, they shouldn't be locked in, locked into a price. They'd have more bargaining power

[36:16] if they weren't so locked into these bulk orders and purchases. And I'll tell you,

[36:20] let me explain what I mean by that. So imagine you are like, Ultraman comes out, right? Imagine

[36:31] Ultraman comes out, right? And Spooky's like, let's just use this as an example. Spooky's like,

[36:36] we want $89.95 for an Ultraman collector's edition, right? They make the game,

[36:44] six months go by, you know, you, you want a distro to order instantly like 200 of them,

[36:50] right? So let's say a distro orders like 200 of these and now has to sell this game at $9,000.

[36:58] Why do they have to bulk order? Because, you know, that's how this whole system works. If you

[37:02] don't get in your order right away, you're not going to get your allotment. Okay. Then what happens

[37:07] is like the game's been out for three, four months and it's not that great and people move away from

[37:14] it and the market value on them starts to tank. Then all of a sudden a used Ultraman might be worth

[37:21] now like $6,000. And so this distro who has another 100 Ultramans he has to now take is watching

[37:32] them sell for $3,000 less than the game he's about to absorb. And so what do you do? Right?

[37:41] Can he cancel his order with the manufacturer and be like, hey, you made a stinker turd,

[37:46] people don't want it, I'm canceling that order. No, he's locked into all those games. Right? And

[37:52] that's why they've got this nonrefundable deposit that everyone is doing except for Stern now,

[37:58] because it basically gives them immunity from a bad game. It's like they're going to get paid

[38:05] regardless. And it's like this really, really weird business model where everyone's trying to

[38:12] protect themselves, but the only one who doesn't, you know, but in the end, we're back, we're back,

[38:19] sorry, sorry, sorry. In the end, like I said, no, to a phone call. In the end, it's this model that

[38:29] was put in place from like the 80s. Like this is like, this is not even like 80s, like a 60s and 70s

[38:34] and 80s business model. In the end, what's going to happen is distributors are going to be sitting

[38:43] on inventory, they're going to get screwed. Manufacturers are not going to be able to rely

[38:49] on distributors being their customers forever like this, because distributors are going to run

[38:55] out of money to buy everything new. Okay. And then what's going to happen is, as consumers,

[39:03] because remember, we're buying from a middleman always unless you buy direct, right? You're buying

[39:09] from a middleman, but buying direct doesn't make any sense. Why would you buy direct when you don't

[39:16] get any discount? Do you understand that? Like explain to me how that makes sense. So if I buy

[39:24] a game from a distributor and they make $2,000 on an LE or 1500 bucks for giving me the game,

[39:35] they're the middleman, right? The game goes from Stern to distributor to me. If we remove that middleman

[39:42] and I buy the game directly from Stern or Jersey Jack, that company still charges me the same price

[39:50] so then they just make a lot more money. So the part that I don't get is, if companies just want

[39:58] to make more money, why don't they just sell everything directly? It just seems illogical,

[40:05] all of it. Like I can't make sense of it. I'm never going to make sense of it. It seems nonsensical.

[40:13] All right. But you know what? It's a can of worms I'm never going to solve.

[40:22] What do you guys want to know first? You want me to give you my two cents on Haggis or we want to

[40:27] talk about Lloyd? It's not a big deal. We're just going to throw the truth about the Lloyd JJP

[40:35] mystery. We're going to stop speculating and we're just going to throw it on the table.

[40:42] Let's talk about Haggis. Here's the thing. I'm going to say this

[40:53] and I want to use dates. I want to use dates. I want to use numbers. I want to use facts.

[41:01] I want to use realities in May, which will be a year, a year next month in May of 2023.

[41:13] It was either May or July, but I want to say it was May. Can someone fact check this for me?

[41:19] Can someone fact check me? Just Google right now and put it in the comments.

[41:24] When did Haggis Pinball announce Centaur revisited? I believe it was May of 2023,

[41:33] but I just want to make sure that's right. Can someone please, before I get going,

[41:40] because I want to start this Haggis story there.

[41:43] This is not going to be pretty if you have money in on Haggis. This is not going to be pretty if

[41:53] you're a distributor of Haggis product, but this is going to be what needs to be said.

[42:00] I'm going to say it as eloquently as possible. I'm going to try to articulate my feelings on this

[42:07] in a somewhat professional manner, but it was July. I thought so, Ben. Thank you.

[42:15] I think May was the original announcement of Fathom. I'm just getting my dates. I want to get

[42:20] this right. July. Let's just count for a minute. Months, because I think timing is really important

[42:27] here. July 5th. Thank you, Michael. July, August, September, October, November, December. Six months.

[42:43] December, January, February, March, April, 10 months ago. We're almost at May. We're almost at

[42:55] 11 months since this whole thing happened. No, I think we're 10 months ago. They announced

[43:05] Centaur revisited. When they did that, they had still yet to finish building all of their Fathom

[43:14] orders. Many individuals had paid in full. They paid in full because Damien and Marty,

[43:25] I'm going to use both of these gentlemen together because you don't get to remove yourself from

[43:32] the accountability of this whole situation, Marty, because I think you, out of all, Damien is just

[43:39] hiding like a weasel. I'm going to call these people, I think, what they are right now. I know

[43:44] they're going through a tough time, but I get it. You've got a man up, and you have a responsibility

[43:51] to communicate. I'll tell you why I think all of you should be ashamed of yourselves. I think

[43:57] Marty should be ashamed of himself. The fact that he goes on his podcast every time he goes on it,

[44:03] he refuses to even bring up anything happening with Haggis. Does Jeff Teolis bring it up? No.

[44:11] They're all laughing and giggling throughout the shows. Is it a laughing matter that

[44:19] many hardworking people out there around the world gave these gentlemen tens of thousands of

[44:25] dollars, over hundreds of thousands of dollars have been given to Haggis Pimbal off of the false

[44:31] promise that their games would be ready in eight weeks? That has been the ongoing storyline and

[44:37] the lie that Damien's been telling people. When he tells people they'll have their game in eight

[44:42] weeks, it's a flat out lie. It's a fraudulent statement meant to secure current day capital

[44:50] because he knows he's never going to get those games done in eight weeks, but he needs that money

[44:56] clearly for something probably most likely to finish building games for the people he promised

[45:02] nine months ago they were going to have their games in eight weeks. It's this never-ending cycle of

[45:08] lying, a cycle of contempt, because the books don't work, because the business model doesn't work.

[45:15] So he lies about that and he doesn't finish the games. He still owes all these fathoms.

[45:20] And in the middle of owing all these fathoms, what does he do? Does he go to a bank and get more

[45:26] money? Does he raise more capital then? Does he recapitalize while he's focused on one game?

[45:33] What does he do? He pulls the oldest fraudulent manipulating card in the entire book out of his

[45:41] pocket, which is announce a new game to get new capital to then rob Peter to pay Paul with a

[45:49] new business model. There is no reason why when you still have a lot of fathoms to make that you

[45:55] should be announcing a new game, taking money on a new game, and promoting a new game at all. So

[46:04] July and when he took money on Centaur, him and Marty, and Kari Hardy, and Zach Many, let's just

[46:11] call the names who they are. Everybody was excited, right? Everybody got on board. Everybody promoted

[46:18] this thing. They promoted Centauri, visited it, and got people to put more new money chasing bad

[46:25] money. They got more people to invest with nonrefundable deposits. And as much as you want to say,

[46:31] like we didn't make anybody invest, you didn't. You didn't. And there is an onus on anyone who

[46:37] did invest. And I get that. But look, there's also something called like, why would you reinvest?

[46:45] Or why as a company or a content creator, why would you go and get in bed with a guy that has

[46:52] been misleading people? At that point, Damian had been misleading people for almost two to three

[46:57] years. I think it was like three years. Like since the beginning of COVID, he had been misleading

[47:02] people that they would have their games in eight months. And you knew that, Kari. You knew that,

[47:06] Zach. You knew that everybody affiliated with like this game. This wasn't like a new thing. And you've

[47:12] also been around the block so many times that you've seen this behavior before. You've seen what happens

[47:18] when a company is running out of money and they have to announce Raza because they can't build the

[47:24] magic girls or they've got to announce alien because they don't have money to finish the full

[47:28] throttles. Like this is like the same story over and over again. And for some reason, even though

[47:33] we've seen this story unfold a million times, there was like this notion that this time it's

[47:40] different. No, it's not different. It's just Damian is just another jovial guy with stars in his eyes

[47:48] who built a company based on transparency. And how far did that get you? How transparent has he been?

[47:56] The guy is hiding. Okay, he's hiding. So look, I think there is a level of blame. If you went in on

[48:06] a series ticket holder, $5,000 series ticket holder purchase, you really don't have anybody to blame

[48:14] but yourself. What were you thinking? The guy made like 15 Celts and you handed him $6,000.

[48:22] What were you thinking? We then saw date after date after date of fathom,

[48:30] mis, not by days, not by weeks, by significant months, which is a red flag. Okay. And even after

[48:40] all of that, right, lying to his customers that they would have their games in eight weeks.

[48:45] And here's what keeps the lie going. We saw this with Highway Pimbal. The greatest thing

[48:54] is to the greatest way to keep the lie going is just trickle a few games out. As long as you

[49:01] trickle a few games out, that is what people will point at and say, hey, look, he's going to get it

[49:08] done. He's going to get it done. Look, there are games going to customers. And yes, there were

[49:13] games going to customers. The problem is, is those games going to customers are so extremely delayed

[49:22] that those customer games were most likely built with new pre-order money. And everybody knows

[49:31] that because here's the thing, right? And I could go down the whole road about how all of that

[49:38] shilling of Centaur, and when I started raving, I started waving the red caution flag when Centaur

[49:45] was revealed, I got two emails and I have them still because you'll never see him deny this.

[49:53] I got two emails saying I was causing emotional harm to the distributor of Haggis Pimbal.

[50:01] Because, and what I was saying was not true. Okay. So I got a lawyer who read over everything

[50:10] and listened to the podcast and I responded to said email with, if you will, let me know with

[50:19] timestamps what I said that was incorrect. I will retract it. Not only that, I will make a new show

[50:27] saying what I said was wrong. And now we're in this really weird space now where

[50:35] what I think made people give deposits on Centaur was the promise that their money

[50:43] would be refunded to them if Haggis Pimbal went under. That's what the promise was. Now,

[50:51] look, if I were Zach, I wouldn't have made that promise. Why would I make that? I would only make

[50:56] that promise if I held on to the money. See, the mistake that has happened here, and everyone's

[51:04] going to start to like either ignore it or go in different directions. When Melissa was getting back

[51:10] in bed with Barry, not literally, but you know, with like the big Lebowski, the difference is,

[51:15] like when Melissa was taking Lebowski deposits, right, after nobody believed that Dutch would pull

[51:24] it out, she didn't send the money to Barry. She held on to that money in escrow because she knew,

[51:33] she knew based on past experiences that trust had to be rebuilt between Barry and her and customers

[51:44] and sending the money right away to Dutch would just, could tee up another, another calamity.

[51:51] And she held that money in escrow and didn't pay Barry until those games were shipping.

[51:59] So she had the money. So at any point, if you were like, I want my money back,

[52:05] Melissa had your money. Zach sent all the money over to Damien with the promise if Damien collapsed

[52:13] I'll refund you. Real risk there. High risk. I don't, I don't notice, I don't see the upside

[52:20] in taking a high risk play like that. I just don't, I don't see it. You're making money selling

[52:26] Stern, you're making money selling CGC. God, you're making how much money selling toppers, bro?

[52:31] Like how much money are you making when you sell a foo fighter topper? Like let's just stop pretending,

[52:36] like you're making hundreds of dollars selling one foo fighter. Just, just accept it. You're

[52:40] making a lot of money. You're very successful distro. You sell spooky. You don't need it.

[52:47] Like nobody needed to get in bed with Haggis. Like it just wasn't worth the risk, right? For a few

[52:53] more tens of thousands of dollars or a hundred thousand dollars, whatever it is, it's just,

[52:57] it's just not worth the risk because it all could go goodbye. And again, like if I were them, I

[53:04] wouldn't have gotten bed with Damien. I wouldn't have said I'll give you your money back. I would

[53:08] have said, look, this is a risk and we all knew it was a risk. This is the thing that I don't

[53:13] understand how anybody in July of 2023 didn't realize the risks associated with giving more

[53:21] money to Damien and Marty, a company that was hiding out, going months without any, any external

[53:30] communication, games barely making the games the way out the door. The other part that really is

[53:36] the end of it all is, and then Fathom prices are like tanking and Centaur isn't back to the future.

[53:44] So when you look at Dutch, it's like the reason why they can charge 13,000 for Lebowski is because

[53:51] the game's amazing and like it had demand. There's no longer any demand for Fathom. So anyone even

[53:58] waiting on a Fathom, think about how these people feel right now. Your money is, you don't even know

[54:03] where your money is. You don't know where your game is. And you can open up Pinsight and go get a

[54:09] Fathom mermaid edition two day for $6,500, $7,000. No risk. The game's much cheaper and there's no

[54:18] demand. And so now I want to ask one simple question. Where is the haggis money? Where are the

[54:28] Centaur deposit dollars that people gave Nitro and flippin out? They're with Damien, but Damien and

[54:37] Marty. So, you know, Tommy and Zach off stage, off stage left. Now I want to talk to Damien and Marty.

[54:46] Where is that money? Give the money back. You have clearly shown like it's just like, and look,

[54:58] if you get investment money, if you're recapitalized, if you get the train back on the track,

[55:04] everybody will root for you. I'll clap for your, you know, your reconciliation, you know, you rejuvenate

[55:12] the company. But until that day, I don't think you should be holding on to all of these people's

[55:20] hard-earned money with no line of sight on to when anything's going to get fixed, when there's going

[55:27] to be recapitalization, like where their money is, like now there's people suing you who you owed,

[55:33] like nine fathoms to all of this is on the table now. And I don't want to hear like Marty on his

[55:41] podcast, ignore this. I don't want to, you know, I like, I don't need to hear like other podcasters,

[55:45] but controversial. This is not controversial Chris Colores. This is just the reality of what's

[55:51] happened. I think people got greedy. I think a company bit off more than they could chew.

[55:57] I think consumers were duped by content creators who didn't think this through. And I think there's

[56:04] just a lot of that in pinball. I think there's a lot of like cheerleading and celebrating anything

[56:09] that happens in pinball. And I'm, and if anything I say is wrong or incorrect, if anything I say is

[56:17] I will retract, I will clarify, and I will, I will do an entire show dedicated to what I'm saying is

[56:27] incorrect about what's going on over at Haggis Pinball, about where the money's at.

[56:36] Distros sent the money to Haggis. That has already been, that has already been confirmed.

[56:43] If the money's not with Haggis, if the money's not with Haggis, why wouldn't Zach just kick it back

[56:50] to the, to the people? Kick it back. They're going to buy, oh, just let them transfer it over to another

[56:54] game. They, you can't transfer it over to another game. You have to keep your order.

[57:03] So I don't think, and here I like, I really want to, I really want, because I know people think like,

[57:09] oh, I'm not, I'm not doing this because of any prior beef with like anybody other, like my beef,

[57:18] like let me, let me really make this clear. My beef on all of this is with Damien and Marty.

[57:26] It's not with Zach Many. It's not with Kerry Hardy. It's not with Tommy at Nitro.

[57:32] They believed in Damien and Marty. You believed in Damien and Marty if you gave them your money.

[57:38] All right. That, that is who my beef is with. And you could say, well, let's give them time

[57:43] to recapitalize. That's fine. But I think in that timeframe, they should give the deposit money back.

[57:51] They should have to recapitalize in a different way. It shouldn't look, you know, you could go look

[57:57] people. I saw Damien and, and I guess he has like a family business with real estate. They're selling

[58:03] a piece of property in Australia. It's all public information. They're looking to get, I think,

[58:08] something like a million dollars or something for this piece of property. Sell that property

[58:16] and recapitalize Haggis Pinball with it. But don't take hundreds of thousands of dollars from,

[58:22] from Zach Many and Tommy and other consumers as a way to bail you out. But by, by like announcing

[58:30] game number three, you know, Centaur before game number two Fathom is finished. That's, that's no,

[58:36] sell your, sell your lotuses Damien. Sell, you know, your, you, you, you, and I guarantee you this

[58:43] that Damien has protected himself. I guarantee you that he has protected himself. His personal

[58:51] wealth, his personal holdings, his personal equity will not suffer one bit. If he has to

[58:59] like shut down the operation, he will not suffer personally any of his private wealth. It's going

[59:05] to be all of you who lose your money, who went in on it. And that's my feelings on Haggis Pinball.

[59:14] And I think it's unfortunate. I think we've seen this story many times. And I think the truth,

[59:22] I don't know what the truth is. I don't, I'm not saying I'm just giving you my point of view on

[59:28] what I've seen unfold. But what I think is really unfortunate is that we're allowing this to happen

[59:34] again. And the reason why this happens time and time again is because there is nobody holding these

[59:42] companies accountable. You know, we don't have real journalism in pinball. We don't have real

[59:48] journalism, even though hundreds of thousands of dollars and even though millions of dollars

[59:53] have been fraudulently evaporated from the pinball hobby, we don't really have anybody who's like

[01:00:00] watching over what these companies are doing. And I try to get somewhere close to that every

[01:00:06] once in a while. But the majority of people who cover this hobby, this does not interest them.

[01:00:14] You know, they would say this is not bringing positivity to pinball. I get it. I didn't want to

[01:00:22] talk about this stuff. I didn't want there to be a Haggis Pinball. You know me, I thought their

[01:00:26] company should have ended with Kells because it's a terrible game. But here we are. And so when these

[01:00:31] situations happen, I just don't think anyone else really wants to cover it. I get it's like kicking

[01:00:38] a horn its nest. I get it's not fun. I get it's dramatic. I get it's controversial. But I also

[01:00:46] feel like nobody is speaking for all of those people who are losing their money, who have had

[01:00:53] their money tied up for months, if not years. Who's speaking on their behalf? I don't see Iceman on

[01:01:02] Pinside grabbing a torch to go make sure we make these buyers whole. I don't. The loudest mouths

[01:01:09] in pinball on Pinside, they're just making fun of this whole thing. I don't think it's a laughing

[01:01:16] matter. And as somebody who works hard for my money, and you work hard for your money, and you

[01:01:22] have vacations you want to go on, and you have mortgage payments, who's standing up for the

[01:01:27] rights of those consumers? I just think that the challenge now is Haggis might never go under,

[01:01:43] but they might never succeed. Those two things can happen at the same time. This thing could drag

[01:01:49] on for years, and you'll never get a refund. I mean, Dutch Pinball took him like 10 years to turn

[01:01:56] the corner. So I think that's going to be the ultimate outcome of this entire thing. I don't

[01:02:01] think Zach Manny is going to be giving any refunds, because I don't think Damien's ever going to throw

[01:02:06] in the towel. And I think it's going to be another one of these, like, you'll probably get your fathoms.

[01:02:12] You'll probably eventually get them at some point, and by the time you get them,

[01:02:21] much like Andrew Highway buyers and early Dutch buyers, by the time you get them,

[01:02:29] you're not even going to want them, because the annoyance of what you went through to get it,

[01:02:35] it'll never be satisfying the experience of getting it. You can go get one used for much

[01:02:41] less money than yours is today, which didn't happen with Big Lebowski, by the way. So that was

[01:02:46] the only thing too. It's such a double whammy for these fathom people. And there's just too many

[01:02:52] other pinball machines doing it the right way. There is a lot of positivity in pinball. There is a

[01:02:59] lot of positivity in pinball, and there's a lot of companies doing it right. And I think moving

[01:03:04] forward, if you're a distributor, I mean, just get in bed with the legit companies, and none of this

[01:03:10] happens. If you're a customer, just buy from the companies that are clearly executing properly.

[01:03:19] Like that's it. It's not hard. Don't blindly support people. Don't blindly trust these people.

[01:03:26] You got to remember, Damien was like an IT nerd with short hair, a geek. He got into pinball,

[01:03:33] his hair was down to here. He became Lars Ulrich from Metallica all of a sudden. Like the moment

[01:03:38] he became in pinball, he was Damien the rock star. And I bet he thought he couldn't fail.

[01:03:45] But this is failing. This is what failing looks like. Failing isn't always just over an instant.

[01:03:52] Like this is a long fail, but it will fail. It will fail. There's not demand for Centaur. We all

[01:04:00] know it, and that's just the way it goes. All right, before I do the little Lloyd thing,

[01:04:07] how's the show, by the way? Guys, 110 stars, all this truth, all this candidness, and that's about

[01:04:17] 110 stars is like a buck 75. Really. Do me a favor. If you don't care so much about the stars, but

[01:04:29] I really want you guys to sign up for Canada's Pinball podcast if you aren't. And about a

[01:04:37] thousand of you are going to watch this who are not club members. I really think that $5 a month

[01:04:43] is what motivates me to keep doing this. Because, gang, trust me, there will come a day where I'll

[01:04:49] just be like, you know what? It's not worth it because you're making, a distributor will make

[01:04:53] more money than I make in a year just selling toppers alone. And I'm like, why am I doing this?

[01:04:58] Why am I even bothering to entertain and to sort of go down these roads with you? Because, again,

[01:05:04] remember, I'm putting myself on the line a little bit too, because I guarantee you,

[01:05:08] they're all looking now for like legal angles to come at me. They're all looking for legal

[01:05:13] angles to come at me. But they all know that everything I just said, they have no legal

[01:05:18] ground to stand on that could ever, that they would ever win in any court of law. And I'm doing this

[01:05:25] at home on a work, you know, not on a work computer, not on a work anything. This is all me.

[01:05:32] And I would go into any court of law and stand behind what I just said. And, you know, I don't

[01:05:38] listen to their shows and everyone's responses because they don't respond. All they respond with

[01:05:43] is insulting me. You know, and that's their only response ever is to say this, they insult me.

[01:05:51] You know, I'm sure, I'm sure like, you know, I don't know, they're just not you're just not

[01:05:58] going to get the truth from them because the truth is too hard to communicate.

[01:06:03] The truth is you should never put a pinball machine in front of a window. And, you know, out of all

[01:06:07] the topics, I don't know, you know, I know most of you don't care about Haggis. It's just a little

[01:06:15] connection. This one's actually more near and dear to my heart than Haggis. All right. That's a window.

[01:06:22] All right. That's a window. Now, this room I'm in now, I'm going to pan around a little bit.

[01:06:31] Pins could go there, but you wouldn't put a pin there because it would block the doorway.

[01:06:35] All right. You don't want to do that. Now this wall here, perfect for pinball machines. You can put

[01:06:41] about, I would say good, like five pins could line up at that wall. And this wall, even better.

[01:06:51] This, this wall goes all the way here. You're talking about a good eight pins. So there's about

[01:06:58] 13 pinball machines could probably, 12 to 13 pinball machines could comfortably fit in this space.

[01:07:06] Okay. That's a window. Now, if you just Google any, any interior designer,

[01:07:18] any Feng Shui about how to place furniture in a room, because a pinball machine is a piece of

[01:07:23] furniture. It is a large wooden, non-transparent piece of furniture. They would never, yeah,

[01:07:33] well, this is, this is the apartment next to me that I'm renting. This is not, this is not even

[01:07:37] my apartment. Canada has, I have my apartment and then I rent this built, the one behind us,

[01:07:44] from the building for just a few months, but I'm, this is all going away when we get to the house.

[01:07:50] If you put a pinball machine here, it would look terrible. And even if I put a curtain over it or

[01:07:58] drapes, it's still a window. You're not supposed to block windows with furniture.

[01:08:06] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Like, and, and, and I've never seen anyone do it where it looks good.

[01:08:14] The only time it works, there's only one time it works. The only time it looks good and it works

[01:08:22] is if you live in a floor-to-ceiling glass walled house or apartment where it just, that, that,

[01:08:33] that works because the reason why that works is you're not blocking, you see this frame?

[01:08:40] You're not interrupting the framing of the window. The whole thing would be glass. So it would look

[01:08:47] clean. You guys know I'm right. Your wives know I'm right. Anyone who's got any design or style

[01:08:55] knows I'm right. And, and we're just going to leave it at that. All right.

[01:09:02] All right. So here's what I heard about this Lloyd thing. And, you know, look, Lloyd's a great guy.

[01:09:09] The work he does with the hobbies is tremendous. And, you know, he's,

[01:09:17] you know, I know that we probably all should be contributing to Lloyd somehow.

[01:09:24] And I know Lloyd, like, financially, like, you know, is on hard times. I've read the stories.

[01:09:30] I've read the stories. You know, he said them publicly, you know, some, I think, you know,

[01:09:35] there's days where he just has to like sleep on the floor of his arcade and all. It's terrible.

[01:09:39] Like the guys, it's just, it's sad to me that we live in a hobby where distributors and companies can

[01:09:47] make hundreds of thousands of dollars, if not millions of dollars a year on margins, on cheap

[01:09:55] plastic toppers. And a guy like Floyd, does it say Floyd? Lloyd, sorry. I just, I, for some reason,

[01:10:03] I was thinking like Floyd Mayweather. Lloyd Mayweather should be his nickname. But a guy like Lloyd

[01:10:10] that spends so many hours helping the community without any pay, without any return, without

[01:10:18] anything is basically, you know, financially, you know, struggling all the time. And it's like,

[01:10:28] you got, it just doesn't make sense to me, you know, it just doesn't make sense how there can be so

[01:10:32] much money floating around this hobby. And we can't make sure that Lloyd is like gainfully employed

[01:10:39] at one of these companies. I don't get it. Now, I don't have a job to give them, but other people

[01:10:45] have had, you know, opportunities to give them. And, but that story just never really made sense

[01:10:52] to me of like, why would Jersey Jack have to be unable to work with Lloyd considering it just

[01:10:58] seemed like Lloyd would just do the work for free, right? They would like send him games,

[01:11:03] and he would become an expert on how to fix those games. And why would they ever

[01:11:10] divorce that relationship when the guy is basically, you know, helping you out. And so what I heard,

[01:11:17] it kind of makes sense. It's unfortunate because I think it all connects to just, you know, where

[01:11:22] he's at financially and the reality of everything is that the reason I heard they separated was,

[01:11:31] it was just over taxes on the free games that Lloyd gets. And that's it. Like he just would,

[01:11:40] just didn't want to like, take the tax form or claim those games on his taxes

[01:11:47] as, as, as earnings or as an asset to pay tax on. And I think that's unfortunate. And I think,

[01:11:58] you know, it sucks that I think because of that his refusal to do that is why I heard that Jersey

[01:12:04] Jack and him like parted. I think a solution to that would it just have been to make Lloyd a

[01:12:12] salaried employee. And all he's doing for the hobby, why not just make him a salaried employee and,

[01:12:21] you know, make it so that, you know, it's part of his job just to have those games and do that work.

[01:12:29] But, you know, that's what I heard. And I think it's a lose-lose. I do. I think it's a lose-lose

[01:12:35] for both parties. And I know he's over at CGC now, but more so, I want to say this and I mean this.

[01:12:44] We did a project pinball fundraiser for like years ago. And, and, and Ken ran it, Ken Cromwell.

[01:12:54] And we were supposed to put all these, you know, I think it was like,

[01:12:58] Willy Wonka was out as the new game. We were supposed to put all these Willy Wonkas into the,

[01:13:03] into the hospitals for the kids and, and people raised like $50,000. And it was great. It was a great

[01:13:09] outpouring of charity and generosity from this hobby we all love. And what I think we should do,

[01:13:18] you're going to have to pay taxes on this, Lloyd, if we do it. But I think we should

[01:13:22] do a fundraiser for Lloyd. And I think after all these done, I've never seen anyone do that for the guy.

[01:13:28] And so I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to do this and I'm going to figure out when to launch it.

[01:13:37] Let's do it soon. And just all the money we raise, because I want to also show people that

[01:13:44] I think my listeners and my followers have the biggest heart and some of you have the biggest

[01:13:49] checkbooks. I know you do. But I think, I think we could smash $50,000 for Lloyd just, just as like a,

[01:13:57] as a payment for like decades of the work he's done for us. And I think that would help him so much.

[01:14:05] And I think it would mean the world to him. And again, like, I think we should just all think about,

[01:14:11] you know, doing something like that for an individual that means so much, you know, to this hobby.

[01:14:17] And, and again, like, I think it's weird to me to live in a world where like, you know, you've got the

[01:14:23] abysses that are worth billions of dollars, right? Thousands of millions of dollars made in the world

[01:14:30] of banking, you know, sold this bank for X amount of billions, like, right before the financial

[01:14:37] crash of 2008, like the abysse family, like, just crushed it, right? Great timing, man. They got out

[01:14:43] right at the right time. But how can you have all that money? And then a guy like Lloyd is like

[01:14:53] sleeping on the floor of his arcade. And when you start to realize, like, life is so unfair, like,

[01:15:02] when you think about that, like, there's no reason why, as a community, you know, we should be standing

[01:15:09] by and watching somebody suffer. And you know what the thing about Lloyd is, he would never ask for

[01:15:13] a penny. He could tell it with his character. He would never ask for a penny. He would never

[01:15:17] expect it from any of us. And he would just like, I think he's got too much pride to even want to be

[01:15:24] involved in anything like this. But I think we should do it anyway. And I think we should show him

[01:15:30] that all of the help he's provided people over all of these years has not gone

[01:15:37] unwitnessed and without appreciation. So like, let me, let me, let me get my marketing mind. Now,

[01:15:45] the baby's about to come any day now, but I think we do a Lloyd fundraiser. And let's see how much

[01:15:51] we can get. I think anything we get, it's going to go right to him. I think we figure out how to

[01:15:59] like friends and family, you know, we'll do like small, like, even if we raise more than

[01:16:03] the amount like we should wire it over in smaller increments or just heck, like just

[01:16:10] give him cash. I know he doesn't want to pay taxes. I get it. I mean, when you're, when you're down

[01:16:15] and out financially, the last thing you want to do is give the government anything. I get it.

[01:16:23] You know, I paid last year. I paid last year. We can do a go fund me, David.

[01:16:33] The only thing is, David, like, does, does go fund me kick you at 1099? Does anyone, they must.

[01:16:42] I'm just trying to avoid like, you know, like, like, I'm assuming go fund me might kick you at 1099.

[01:16:53] I'm something he needs and cover the taxes. I think Joe, you know what I think he needs, Joe?

[01:16:58] I think he needs a good place to stay, you know? I mean, with all the money in his hobby,

[01:17:06] in his community, you know, setting Lloyd up with like a good apartment wherever he's at,

[01:17:11] like, I mean, it would change his life. I paid $26,000 in taxes based off of my pinball content.

[01:17:26] I paid it, you know, it's like, is what it is. And, and, and luckily I put that money aside. I

[01:17:31] didn't, I didn't spend it. I can write some stuff off on my taxes. Like if I buy games, I didn't buy

[01:17:37] any games. I wasn't going to lie. Like I didn't buy a game. I sold my Pulp Fiction spot for $1,000.

[01:17:45] You know, everybody, I'm about to, I'm about to have a second baby. My life is about to be turned

[01:17:50] upside down for the better. Killian is the greatest gift and his brother will be the second greatest

[01:17:58] gift. And obviously, Brenda is the most amazing gift. I come from a very amazing family. Well,

[01:18:06] a little bit. My parents are amazing. My twin brother, when me and my twin brother are getting

[01:18:10] along, it's great. I have an older brother I don't talk to at all. Not, not, you know, not by choice.

[01:18:17] It just is what it is. Like every family's got their drama. Life is really short. I, you know,

[01:18:24] I just don't think anyone should ever get into a pinball scenario where it's stressing them out,

[01:18:30] where they're getting ripped off and they're getting lied. And I think Marty and Damon,

[01:18:35] Marty and Damien, I think they need to take a long, hard look in the mirror. And I'm sure they are.

[01:18:42] But I think they need to, I think they need to come clean. And I want to just tell Marty and Damien

[01:18:48] one thing. It's not, it's not the worst thing in the world to sometimes just admit defeat

[01:19:00] and close shop. I mean, because, because, because if the only way to save it is to keep lying to

[01:19:12] people more and doing all these Mickey Mouse marketing moves and financial fundraising

[01:19:18] moves that are just, you know, fraudulent or at least I don't even know if they're fraudulent.

[01:19:23] They're just like, they're just, they're not going to work. You know, when Damien tried to

[01:19:28] compare his operations to Toyota, it was like, are you really thinking that you're anywhere

[01:19:36] within a country mile of the manufacturing ability of Toyota? The Japanese are the most efficient

[01:19:45] manufacturers in the world. They would never have done nonrefundable deposit schemes the way

[01:19:51] these guys did it. And I mean it too, because like it's not lost to me that like Damien's a father

[01:19:57] with a beautiful boy, you know, he's in like private school and he's got a great wife and,

[01:20:03] you know, like these are human beings. Like I get it. Like Carrie, I just was watching this video of

[01:20:09] Carrie was gone in California and his daughter was like getting off of the bus and like saw him and

[01:20:16] like ran to him and like that love, you know, like that moment with a love between a parent and a

[01:20:22] child is a billion times better than any pinball wizard mode or code you're ever going to get.

[01:20:28] Like we know this stuff people. And again, as I always say, like the only reason we're in this hobby

[01:20:33] it's not because of these games. That's like 30%. The other 70%. It's all about the people, the

[01:20:40] friendships, the conversations and feeling like we're not alone. You know, the number one thing

[01:20:46] that has people depressed in this world is a feeling of loneliness. And that feeling of loneliness

[01:20:53] is is is the worst it's ever been in Gen Z because they're addicted to social media and they stare

[01:21:01] at cell phones all day long and they don't know what it's like to build real meaningful relationships

[01:21:08] in real life. Most of us do. We grew up in a different world. But as long as we have each

[01:21:15] other in pinball, we're just never going to be alone. And you know, I want to give a shout out to

[01:21:20] like Genghis when I wake up at three in the morning, I can't sleep. My boy over there in Denmark is

[01:21:27] up. I want to give a shout out to everybody on my Patreon chat. You guys are the best.

[01:21:35] That chat is better than Pinsai. That chat's better than this Saturday show. It's like if you join

[01:21:40] the Patreon, there's a chat there that is the greatest running conversation in all of pinball.

[01:21:47] It is. It's the greatest running conversation going. And it's not negative. We do have some fun.

[01:21:53] But everything being said there is a great bonding experience for everyone who's there. And you

[01:21:58] guys know who you are who are there. I mean, it's absolutely amazing. And then my boy in America,

[01:22:04] Derek, who lost $7,500 on his godfather. And the other thing about Derek is like,

[01:22:12] he buys his games from Zach Many. He's bought games from Zach Many. And that just goes to show you

[01:22:19] that deep down, like, I'm not even asking my best friend out there to not buy from flipping out.

[01:22:26] So if you ever think that any of this has like an ulterior motive, it doesn't. I have no beef with

[01:22:33] those guys or my beef is with Marty and Damien. It's always going to be with the companies. Zach

[01:22:39] never should have been in a position to have to give refunds because the game should have been built.

[01:22:46] Carrie Hardy never should have been, you know, never should have been chastised by me

[01:22:51] for unboxing a Centaur because Centaur unboxing should never have happened until all the fathoms

[01:22:57] were built. But they're just excited. They're excited because that's why we're in Pimbal. We

[01:23:02] want to be excited about this stuff. And opposing things can happen at the same time.

[01:23:10] Like, Canada can talk about this stuff and be kind of spot on and still be a narcissistic jackass.

[01:23:17] Do you understand that? And that's the most important thing to take away as I close out this

[01:23:22] show is two opposing things can be true. I could be a narcissistic bipolar jackass who barely plays

[01:23:30] Pimbal, but actually be 100% accurate about what's going on over at Haggis. And I know that's hard

[01:23:40] for some people to like understand. Like, there are content creators out there that just because

[01:23:46] it's me, they won't listen. You know, like, you know, who says almost the same exact stuff I say

[01:23:52] every day? Iceman. He hates my guts tremendously. And he basically agrees with everything. We have

[01:23:58] the same exact point of view on almost all this stuff. Same thing with Bruce over at Slamtill.

[01:24:04] Do you ever hear Bruce? Like, like we share like, if he listened to my show and my thoughts on every

[01:24:10] game, we are like exactly the same, but he can't stand me. And it's okay. It's okay. Like everybody,

[01:24:19] we only got 510 stars. The big hitters did not come into the house tonight. It was like Dana,

[01:24:24] Mr. Rosen. We didn't get any of the big stars. But what we did get, I think is one of the greatest

[01:24:31] Saturday mornings spectacular as ever. And that's all that matters. And it means more to me that

[01:24:36] you join the podcast on Patreon than the stars here. Because the stars here, the money goes to

[01:24:42] Zuckerberg and it goes to Apple. I can't tell you the cut Apple takes. And so like, when you go

[01:24:51] to Patreon, I get to keep most of that. So your money is actually going to where you want it to go.

[01:24:57] Okay, everybody, tucks. It's too late, brother. I'm not starting over. This was one of the best

[01:25:01] ever. Guys, thank you. Have a great day. Namaste. To well in the present. The chigo ichi. The past is dead.

[01:25:11] We don't know what the future holds. All we got is today. Love you guys. Be good.
