# Transcript: 2025-03-31_FREE SHOW. Episode 1071 Enough Reckless Rumors in Pinball.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-18 05:41  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 18:20

---

[00:00] All I'm asking is for a little response when you're just home.

[00:03] Just a little bit, baby.

[00:05] Just a little bit.

[00:06] We'll get that home.

[00:07] I say it, I say it, I say it, I say it, I say it, I say it, I say it, I say it, I say it.

[00:11] Ah, welcome everybody to Canada's Pinball Podcast.

[00:14] Happy Monday morning.

[00:16] I want to do a show about rumors and how rumors are a lot of fun in Pinball.

[00:22] They are.

[00:22] Like, it's a lot of fun to speculate what's around the corner.

[00:26] It's a lot of fun to sort of ponder what is going to be put

[00:29] in these boxes, but I've noticed of late, and maybe this is because we're waiting for

[00:35] the big games to come out.

[00:37] But I've noticed there have been a sort of increase in reckless rumors in Pinball.

[00:43] And I mean, there is a line between things we should talk about and discuss and content

[00:50] we should make and discuss and something that's either none of your business or something

[00:57] where you should do some due diligence before you spread a rumor.

[01:02] I'm going to give a few examples of what I mean by that.

[01:06] So first and foremost, I want to talk about Jersey Jack.

[01:10] Jersey Jack is really excited about Harry Potter.

[01:15] People are wondering whether or not he was supposed to announce the title at TPF.

[01:19] But hey man, the guy took three minutes and stole the entire show.

[01:25] He's talking about anything else.

[01:27] And when Jack got up there and announced Harry Potter, he knew Avatar sales were over.

[01:33] They were over.

[01:34] And so yeah, you could be like, oh, what an idiot.

[01:36] Oh yeah, what a fool Jack was.

[01:39] He did this and he torpedoed the sales of Avatar.

[01:42] Maybe it wasn't the smartest move, but he knew what the Avatar orders have been for

[01:47] the last few months.

[01:48] Remember, Avatar came out in October.

[01:51] There are no new orders happening for this game.

[01:55] It's just people who have played the CE waiting for their games to be built.

[01:59] He also knows how close Harry Potter is.

[02:03] And I think he did everybody a solid.

[02:06] Just wait.

[02:07] He doesn't even probably want people to buy Avatar right now because he doesn't want someone

[02:11] to sink 15 grand into an Avatar when he knows what Harry Potter is going to bring.

[02:16] All right, so he did us a solid.

[02:17] Okay, so don't be mad at him for that.

[02:19] But that's not the rumor that's really hurtful and really reckless.

[02:23] It's when I start hearing people talk about Jack's health and then making guesses on what's

[02:28] wrong with Jack.

[02:30] What are you doing?

[02:31] Seriously, is this what this pinball content creating hobby has turned into?

[02:36] People speculating on people's health.

[02:38] And I see this.

[02:39] And then once you start these rumors, even if there is something you notice, it's not

[02:43] your place to start diagnosing people.

[02:47] It's not your place.

[02:48] You know, there used to be a thing about respect for elderly and people's health and they were

[02:51] just things you didn't talk about.

[02:53] And of course, Jack is older.

[02:55] He's been in this hobby for a really long time.

[02:57] And I think everybody in this hobby should just be happy Jersey Jack decided to do this.

[03:03] Sometimes I read about these companies and I read people's like commentary and I'm like,

[03:07] do you even want these companies to be successful?

[03:10] Do you even like pinball?

[03:12] Like it's almost like there's these armies that have formed.

[03:15] We root for these companies like they're sports teams.

[03:17] They're not sports teams.

[03:19] This isn't like the Yankees and the Red Sox.

[03:21] It's Jersey Jack and Stern.

[03:23] But people really have a lot of vitriol and a lot of anger.

[03:27] And I'm even talking to people on this community and you know who you are.

[03:31] I see people in the chat every single day rooting against these companies, rooting against

[03:37] them, making content that just endlessly slams them.

[03:41] Now look, I always wanted to create a forum and a community of free speech.

[03:46] But boy does it get old real fast.

[03:48] It's a broken record.

[03:50] Now yeah, I'm a broken record on things like prices.

[03:53] I don't like pinball high prices and guess what?

[03:56] Nobody does.

[03:57] It's not that I want any of these companies to fail, but I do think these companies need

[04:01] to look at the market and adjust their pricing based on what the market wants.

[04:07] And if we see all of their games losing so much value, then yeah, people over at these

[04:12] organizations should be looking at that and maybe saying we need to roll back the pricing

[04:17] a little bit.

[04:18] This COVID pricing model isn't working, but I don't think personally attacking them is

[04:23] the way to go.

[04:25] And I obviously don't want to talk about people's health or mental health or stuff like that.

[04:30] It's just not appropriate.

[04:33] And it's not worth it for what?

[04:34] A few likes, a few views.

[04:37] Nobody's making any money.

[04:38] Nobody.

[04:39] So there's that.

[04:40] We're talking about Jack's health.

[04:42] Any of you, any of you.

[04:43] The next thing is, and we've seen this all over the place, this despicable rumor, which

[04:48] then gets attributed to me.

[04:50] I'll tell you what happened.

[04:51] I get hit up by George Gomez this weekend and he said, Chris, I hear you're spreading

[04:55] rumors that Stern pinball had layoffs.

[04:59] Layoffs, right?

[05:01] Someone had that meme from the Colts coach, right?

[05:03] Okay.

[05:04] So then I say, George, let me show you what I posted about this rumor.

[05:09] And it was me saying that I heard this rumor days ago and I reached out to a friend at

[05:14] Stern that works there and he told me it's not true.

[05:18] And then I made fun of Pinside for starting a thread about this.

[05:23] And now it's multiple pages long.

[05:25] And this is how these rumors grow.

[05:26] And George Gomez told me there have been no layoffs at Stern.

[05:31] In fact, we have open positions and we are hiring at Stern pinball.

[05:36] And so when you've got these people and it's all over the place now, it's all over the

[05:40] place.

[05:41] You know what people were saying?

[05:42] The rumor that I was hearing from people, which I did not report because I knew it was

[05:45] a lie, was that Stern pinball laid off 30% of its staff, 30%.

[05:53] One out of every three people at Stern pinball was fired.

[05:57] Talk about a reckless rumor.

[05:59] Talk about a hurtful rumor.

[06:02] Talk about something that will do nothing but cause agony and pain to all the people

[06:07] at Stern pinball.

[06:08] The reason why these rumors are reckless is you don't know anything and nobody's even

[06:13] asking, you know what I don't like about this hobby and this community at times is all these

[06:17] people that know people at these companies.

[06:20] And a lot of you, your friends with George Gomez, your friends with the designers over

[06:25] there, a lot of you who are hyper users, you have relationships with the people over at

[06:31] Stern.

[06:32] I didn't see people chiming in at all being like, this is false.

[06:37] This didn't happen.

[06:38] Now maybe they cut back their manufacturing from five days a week to four days a week just

[06:44] for a little bit of time because they don't have as much demand.

[06:48] That's normal.

[06:50] That's what a manufacturing company does.

[06:53] We've put people on furloughed employment at my company when the demand isn't there

[06:57] for work, but we don't want to get rid of you.

[07:00] We might need to reduce your work from five days to four, better than no job at all, but

[07:05] it's not a layoff.

[07:06] We want to keep you.

[07:07] You know, and George was like laughing with me because he's like, see, you know, they

[07:11] blame you again and here you are, the only person saying it's not true.

[07:16] Now Stern pinball hired a new chief marketing officer, not a rumor.

[07:21] You know why I know this?

[07:22] Because I reached out to George Gomez and he told me who they hired.

[07:26] He's like, Chris, you're going to like this guy.

[07:28] And guess what?

[07:29] I'm excited to meet him.

[07:30] You know, look, I met with them and Stern pinball is not going to hire me.

[07:35] You know, look, I would love to work with Stern pinball one day in some capacity for

[07:39] sure.

[07:40] But right now, as I told Seth, you need a CMO and you need someone who comes in here and

[07:46] makes the right decisions and is focused on the collectors.

[07:50] And I don't think his marketing department has ever been focused on the collectors and

[07:55] the high end buyers of his product.

[07:57] I don't.

[07:58] They've been focused on tournament players.

[08:01] I don't think the marketing people that Stern have been focusing at all on the long term

[08:06] customers of their games.

[08:08] And when I was in the room, I asked them, have you ever done anything special for people

[08:12] that have ordered a quarter million dollars in product from you?

[08:16] And they just looked at me and they realized in that moment, our marketing has forgotten

[08:21] these people.

[08:23] And these are our true customers.

[08:25] It's not just dealers and distros.

[08:26] Okay, so they've got a new guy.

[08:28] I'm excited because you know what?

[08:30] That means change is coming.

[08:32] And if you work in marketing, you got to make decisions that make the market stronger for

[08:36] your product.

[08:37] So let's see what happens, but it's not a negative.

[08:40] So nobody was laid off at Stern pinball.

[08:43] Then I wake up this morning to an email about certain individuals at Stern pinball that

[08:49] either have quit or are unhappy at Stern pinball.

[08:53] And this email arrives in this really cryptic way and it's written in a very cryptic way,

[08:59] all these spaces and it's like then one name, first it's the first name, then it's the last

[09:04] name, they've quit and then so and so who we all know is unhappy.

[09:09] So you want me to report that someone at Stern pinball, we all know is unhappy.

[09:16] Okay, so isn't it that person's right to tell you whether or not they're happy with their

[09:21] employment at Stern pinball?

[09:23] Why should I ever report that?

[09:26] Why do you want to spread those rumors and why do you want to share emails like that?

[09:32] We're all grown adults.

[09:35] Is this middle school?

[09:36] Are we little petty caddy children now that just want to spread rumors where we know the

[09:42] only outcome of these rumors is to hurt these companies and to hurt these people.

[09:50] If this is a hobby where you go into it because you want to see people get hurt and you want

[09:56] to see drama, believe me, I've been down that road years ago and guess where it leads you.

[10:01] It'll take you to a place that's not fun.

[10:04] It'll take you to a place where you've added nothing of value and it'll just make you feel

[10:10] empty and shallow inside.

[10:13] So yeah, if this person quit Stern pinball, then they should tell people and if there's

[10:17] someone that's got a big pinball following, it's on them to communicate that, not you.

[10:23] And the rumors we should be having right now are what are the animations going to be like

[10:28] in King Kong?

[10:29] What day is King Kong going to come out?

[10:31] What are going to be the magical mechs in King Kong?

[10:34] Is Arnold going to be in Predator?

[10:37] When is Barrels of Fun going to release its new game?

[10:40] Is it Dune?

[10:41] Is it Goonies?

[10:42] What's it going to be?

[10:43] It's a lot more fun when we wake up and we have rumors like that.

[10:48] And it's not everybody, right?

[10:50] It's not everybody, but man, oh man, oh man, this Stern layoff rumor really caught a lot

[10:56] of momentum.

[10:58] And when I read between the lines on it, it saddens me because I think a lot of you out

[11:03] there want to see Stern pinball fail.

[11:06] You know what's going to happen to pinball if Stern pinball does fail?

[11:10] How bad it will become.

[11:13] If they go away and all we're left with is like a few boutiques and Jersey Jack making

[11:20] one game every year and a half, how much more boring this hobby would be.

[11:26] In a lot of ways, Stern carries all of it.

[11:29] They are the gigantosaurus of the pinball world and everybody else hitches a ride on

[11:36] its back.

[11:38] That is what Stern is.

[11:39] It's like that big whale in the ocean where certain creatures live by just eating the

[11:45] plankton that attaches to the whale.

[11:48] That is Stern pinball.

[11:50] If Stern pinball collapses, you will see a mass exodus of people in this hobby and it

[11:58] will be a new dark age of pinball.

[12:01] Trust me, it's not good for pinball if Stern goes away.

[12:06] For those of you out there who wake up every day and you're rooting against Stern, I think

[12:12] you need to ask yourself what do you do and maybe it's time you leave the hobby, not

[12:18] Stern.

[12:19] I know where a lot of this anger comes from.

[12:21] I do.

[12:23] You feel like Stern is greedy.

[12:26] You feel like they raised prices.

[12:28] They probably raised prices that pushed a lot of you out of the hobby or your ability

[12:33] to buy new and box.

[12:35] As I've been saying for years, gentlemen, you don't need to buy new and box to enjoy

[12:40] the hobby.

[12:41] You don't need to buy new and box to enjoy pinball.

[12:44] Look, I think it is wise for a lot of us to pause new and box pricing because it will force

[12:51] Stern pinball to lower prices or put so much more into the game and get much better themes.

[12:58] That's okay.

[12:59] It's okay to root for that.

[13:02] But that's not what people are rooting for.

[13:04] Outright rooting for these guys to fail.

[13:07] Jersey Jack puts out a phenomenal game in Elton John.

[13:11] Yeah, I still think it's overpriced, but it's a phenomenal game.

[13:15] When I see people slamming that game for being empty, you need to have your head examined

[13:21] because the game isn't really as empty as people think.

[13:26] It's more wide open than other games, but man, is that game fun.

[13:30] Again, I don't know what the outcome is supposed to be for some of you.

[13:34] And it's just the internet, right?

[13:36] Everybody brings themselves to the equation.

[13:40] Everybody's got an opinion.

[13:41] So few people have any talent.

[13:44] So few people add any value back into the world.

[13:47] The reason why I do this podcast is at least I'm doing something and creating something

[13:52] that brings people entertainment and enjoyment and shows like this.

[13:57] And there are many other shows out there.

[14:00] We keep thousands of people engaged in pinball in a much more positive way than a lot of the

[14:08] trash on pin side.

[14:10] We do.

[14:11] We really do.

[14:12] It's a lot more fun to get your news on shows like this and Napsarcade than going to pin

[14:18] side.

[14:19] And there's so many cowards there when you think about it too, because again, to me,

[14:23] a coward is somebody that doesn't show you who they are.

[14:28] You don't know their name.

[14:30] You can't see their face.

[14:32] I got into it with one of these like long time dudes on Facebook.

[14:36] I'm not going to mention names, but his picture is a picture of a parrot.

[14:40] And none of his photos are of him.

[14:43] And I'm just like, I'm just tired of this.

[14:46] You're always stirring the pot.

[14:47] You're always jabbing at me.

[14:49] And I don't even know what you look like.

[14:51] And I've been having a conversation with this dude for years and it's a damn parrot.

[14:56] And it's like, come on now.

[14:57] And I was more mad at me than him.

[15:00] Why am I even bothering having a conversation with a bird?

[15:05] And I know on the other end is a grown dude probably in his fifties who collects pinball

[15:09] machines.

[15:10] So here's my advice to everybody.

[15:12] We need to stop these reckless rumors.

[15:15] If you hear something, sure, there's one thing sharing it in private.

[15:19] If you hear something and it concerns like people or a company, just ask yourself, should

[15:26] I be spreading this rumor about this person?

[15:30] What will the outcome be?

[15:32] Why do I want to hurt this individual?

[15:35] Why do I want to hurt this company?

[15:37] And what do I really want to get out of pinball, this hobby, and this community?

[15:44] Everybody, there's a lot of exciting stuff happening.

[15:46] A lot of us are optimistic these companies are going to deliver magic.

[15:51] Everybody's skeptical about the pricing.

[15:54] Everybody.

[15:55] Nobody likes these prices.

[15:56] Nobody.

[15:57] But it just is what it is at this point.

[15:58] I can't afford it right now.

[16:00] I can't.

[16:01] I can't afford to just drop $15,000 on a pinball machine because I know if I do, I won't enjoy

[16:08] it.

[16:09] I don't want to take that much money out of what I need to spend money on.

[16:14] For $15,000, I just want to do more for my family and more for my well-being.

[16:21] I'm happy now realizing that I'm 30 minutes away from automated.

[16:28] I can walk into Mike's place and play everything for hours and just not have to spend this

[16:35] much money.

[16:36] Not everybody's that close to automated.

[16:39] A lot of people need to order a game to have those intimate experiences.

[16:42] And if you order a game, please hit up Mike at automated because he'll help you get one

[16:48] and he's a great guy.

[16:50] The older I get, man, the things I know bring me happiness.

[16:54] They get smaller and smaller.

[16:56] The amount of people that actually pick up the phone when I call, it gets smaller and

[17:01] smaller every single year.

[17:04] I had a really great phone conversation with Retro Ralf this weekend.

[17:10] He's an awesome guy.

[17:11] I really, really enjoyed our conversation.

[17:14] When you make a lot of content the way he does and I do, you have a common ground.

[17:21] I really want to say Ralf.

[17:23] I don't even know if he's a club member.

[17:24] I think he is.

[17:25] Ralf, it's awesome.

[17:26] We were talking about how sometimes people formulate opinions about both of us and they

[17:31] don't even listen to our content.

[17:34] It's hard.

[17:35] It's hard.

[17:36] One of my friends is Jason Knapp and he's always sometimes questioning how much credit

[17:40] I give him.

[17:41] I'm like, Jason, you don't listen to my show.

[17:43] It's not fair.

[17:44] I'm always giving you credit, but because you don't listen, you don't know that.

[17:48] You can't just go off of my Facebook page and I read everything he does.

[17:52] Look, I'm just happy that most people do the right thing most of the time, but man, a lot

[17:59] of negativity, a lot of reckless rumors lately, and I think they just need to stop.

[18:05] Everybody have a great Monday.

[18:06] We've got a lot of exciting stuff to happen.

[18:09] Stuff's about to pop in April.

[18:11] So get on the train, baby, because we've got four weeks of who knows what's going to drop

[18:17] when in the world of pinball.

[18:19] Canada out.
