# Transcript: 270_148245011.wav

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-18 08:53  
**Model**: whisper-small  
**Duration**: 26:46

---

[00:00] Ah, the pinball world continues to wait and that's why we're here at Kinect is Pinball

[00:26] Podcast. We're looking over at CES. Seth Davis dancing around with C3PO. We've got people

[00:34] waiting on their Alice toppers, people waiting for their Winchester's. Game number nine just

[00:40] went out the door. I think it was like Wild Dog Arcade. We're going to talk about that

[00:45] three hour stream of the game which is really fun to watch if you're waiting on a game.

[00:51] Sometimes it's just fun to see other people play it. You don't want to watch too much

[00:56] but just enough to make sure that you feel good about your purchase. We've got now a

[01:01] number of how many people actually ordered a Dune Machine. The game that every owner just

[01:09] keeps saying you just need to play it. You need to sleep with this woman to understand

[01:15] why you should marry her because the looks aren't going to do it. Well, it's a sexy looking

[01:21] game but you know the personality is that going to do it but once you sleep with Dune

[01:27] you're going to want one. That's what the owners are saying. 720 Dune Machines supposedly

[01:34] ordered a Far Cry from the 1000 they wanted to make. So here we are as we all wait though

[01:41] for Pokemon. Stern is stalling a little bit. Maybe not. There was no release date. What

[01:47] I wish they would do is this. Can we finally get to a place in the pinball universe in

[01:53] which the largest company in the world will just tell us a month in advance when we can

[01:59] expect to see their next game. Why can't they just do that? It's not like we don't know

[02:05] it's coming. It's only pinheads. At least a week out. That would be nice. A week out.

[02:11] Next Friday get ready for something special. There's no rollout over at Stern. It's just

[02:16] like the same formula. Friday are they going to tease Pokemon. Tuesday reveal and then

[02:23] some gameplay a week or two later has been the latest thing they've been doing. So we

[02:28] shall see. What we do know is this. If we get nothing on Friday there's a good chance

[02:33] we're getting nothing for the rest of the week. And so then we wait for the next Friday.

[02:38] That just seems to be their schedule. I'm excited about Pokemon. Am I going to buy one?

[02:46] Am I excited for you who love Pokemon? Yes. Do I think this game is important for Stern

[02:52] to make a statement? Absolutely. Do I think they're going to make a statement with this

[02:56] game? Absolutely not. I think it's going to be like another Star Wars. I think Star Wars,

[03:02] huge IP. It's a fun game. I just don't want to buy it. I think the same thing is going

[03:07] to be true with Pokemon. And so yeah. And I think then it's going to be like, all right,

[03:12] the four month wait to get to Transformers. I think what we might see with Pokemon is

[03:17] Stern release the anniversary edition at the beginning. It makes total sense, right? Because

[03:25] February is the 30th anniversary of Pokemon. And so maybe that's just what they are waiting

[03:30] for. And maybe that is the Ellie version of the game. Who knows? A lot of questions will

[03:37] be answered in just a few weeks. Did you hear the rumor that Barrels of Fun also has the

[03:45] Transformer license that they have the cartoon license of Transformers? So then what would

[03:52] Stern have if Barrels of Fun has the cartoon of G1? Stern is no way going to make another

[03:59] Transformers pinball machine based on the Michael Bay movies. That's not going to happen. And I

[04:07] don't think they're going to make it based on any of the live action. They've already done that.

[04:11] It didn't work. This has to be G1 Transformers. Now you know how I feel. The real hit is not the

[04:21] series. It is Transformers the movie. Whoever can get that license is going to be the one that I

[04:30] must have with Unicron and Rodimus Prime and the battle between Megatron and Optimus. Everybody's

[04:39] in that damn movie, everybody. And it's got the greatest movie soundtrack of all time. And if you

[04:45] know what I'm talking about, you know what I'm talking about. I'm not going to play it right now.

[04:50] First Prime, then Ultra Magnus, and now you. It's a pity you Autobots die so easily, or I might

[05:02] have a sense of satisfaction now.

[05:08] You got the time.

[05:12] You got the time.

[05:13] Arise Rodimus Prime.

[05:16] Optimus.

[05:17] No.

[05:30] This is the end of the road, Galvatron.

[05:33] After all is said and done, you never walk, you never run, you're a winner.

[05:44] So Pokemon, then Transformers, then Fallout, and then the remake or remastering of KISS seems to be the

[05:54] safe bet. And you know, it begs the question, does Stern have no more surprises for us? Are they just

[06:02] so big that everybody knows what's going on? What was the last time Stern like really shocked us with

[06:11] a title? I think we knew about Jaws. Was it John Wick? I feel like we knew about everything else.

[06:17] We knew about Dungeons and Dragons. It's a really big organization. It's hard to be surprised. I think

[06:23] the last true surprise in all the pinball was Winchester's Mystery House. We knew about Dune for

[06:30] a long time. We've known about Beetlejuice forever. We know about Goonies. We know about Sonic. We know

[06:37] about Gremlins. We know that Twilight Zone is coming back. We know about Big Bang Bar coming back.

[06:43] We know that Toten is coming back. We know all of this stuff is happening. We knew about Predator.

[06:49] You know, it's really hard to keep a secret. And I think that secrets in this hobby aren't really

[06:56] necessary for success. When I looked down at this Winchester game, even if it was a theme we knew

[07:04] about, looking down at the game, I think it has everything you need to find 525 buyers. And it's

[07:13] still crazy to me that nobody has put up their spot for sale. Nobody. And I watched like an hour of

[07:20] the stream. I did. I watched the stream. I think it was Mad Dog Arcade. Thank you guys. They have

[07:27] game Relic number 8. And so they're trickling out. I don't think the full production line is going.

[07:34] It's kind of like they're making one or two games a week right now and sending them out into the

[07:41] world. They don't need to sell anymore. It makes absolutely no sense if even locations put it on

[07:48] location. Good for the operator maybe to make some money on the game. But for barrels, there's no

[07:53] more to be sold. So they've made as much money as they're going to make. And that's it. They've sold

[07:59] every single one. Now they're probably kicking themselves that they didn't reverse it. Maybe say

[08:05] they're going to make 750 Winchesters and 500 Dunes. But maybe the reason why Winchester sold so

[08:13] well is because it was only 525. It really reached that tipping point pretty quickly where the FOMO

[08:21] started to set in. I remember how it went down. They brought it to Expo. After a day, the FOMO was

[08:28] growing larger and larger. And by day one at Expo, because they launched it a few days before Expo,

[08:34] the game was sold out. Nobody had any and they were all spoken for. So I watched the gameplay.

[08:40] Same results as the other times I've watched it. The light show is beautiful. The world under

[08:46] glass is amazing. The coding is still early on. The main concern I still have, the shots are really

[08:56] hard. And for some of you, that might be what you want. And you're going to get that. But even

[09:02] watching these guys play, you can start to see just a higher level of frustration in how often

[09:10] the ball drains on the left side. But more than that, how difficult the shots are. And I think

[09:16] they made a really tight game. And that's going to be appealing to very good players. And it might

[09:24] be very frustrating to the more casual player. It's hard to find that balance. Some games are

[09:30] way too easy. You can sit on them forever. The last time I got on a game and I felt it was way too

[09:35] easy was Scooby-Doo. I felt like I could just sit on Scooby-Doo and eat Scooby Snacks for a few hours.

[09:41] And it was really easy to keep the ball alive. I have a game here that's really frustratingly hard.

[09:47] And people don't talk about the fact that Guns N' Roses to me is a drain monster. Like this game,

[09:53] it just drains all the time. And once the ball gets into the slings, it's game over.

[09:59] Unless you're nudging it all the time. And because Guns N' Roses doesn't really have a lot of flow,

[10:04] there's a lot of bricking that goes on in the game. There's a lot of shots that are really

[10:08] close to the flippers. And that's what causes a lot of unsavable drains in the game. I think G&R

[10:16] would be a game that would be much more fun if it wasn't so difficult and it had more flow.

[10:22] Because I think most of us, the difficulty we want in a pinball machine is more about getting

[10:29] through the game. You want to be able to find the shots. You want to be able to feel the excitement

[10:36] of combos. You don't want the ball to brick a lot. And so again, it's that fine balance between

[10:44] making it rewarding to shoot, but not boring layout like a typical fan layout. But you also

[10:51] want there to be a lot of combos and a lot of kinetic satisfaction in lining up different shots

[10:58] in a row. I think the game that I've played most recently over the last couple years that had the

[11:04] most kinetic satisfaction was Elton John. I think after Elton John, the game that I had the most

[11:12] fun, kinetically, was the Uncanny X-Men. You could say what you will about the code and about some

[11:18] of the problems with the auto launcher or plunger in that game. But just from pure where are the

[11:25] shots and how rewarding are they? The third game I would put into the list would be King Kong.

[11:32] King Kong is still an Elwin game. It still shoots phenomenally well. The problem I have with Kong is

[11:39] when I'm playing it, I just don't feel anything. I just don't feel a connection to the theme.

[11:45] It feels a little too cartoony for me. It feels a little too childlike. And I think it just doesn't

[11:52] click with me. But from a shooting standpoint, it's got some great shots. Okay, so it's mid-January.

[11:59] Barrels has eight or nine or so Winchester's out the door. There's five hundred and fifteen or so

[12:06] more to make. I know a lot of you are anxiously awaiting your Winchester games. I'm anxiously

[12:13] awaiting them to sort of put this on the main line. I guess the question I have now is this.

[12:20] If there were around 500 total dunes sold before the cutoff, they didn't make 500 dunes yet,

[12:29] and they sold 220 more, 720 dunes. That's how many total orders for dune they have.

[12:39] This is just my question. So when are they actually going to be done making the dune games?

[12:46] And when will Winchester be the main game on the line? This is the drum I've been beating for a

[12:53] little while because even in Barrels' own communication, they've been saying due to their

[12:59] manufacturing capacities, they sort of have to finish the dunes to really get to the bulk

[13:05] of the Winchester's. So we're just going to be watching this. I think everybody's going to get

[13:10] their game. I think there's no drama here. I don't think anyone's going to be worried about whether

[13:16] or not that's going to happen. I think it's just a question of when. And that's it. It's just a

[13:20] question of when because, you know, they did reveal this game in October, November, December,

[13:28] January. It was four months ago. And so it was a good move to reveal it early, but that just means

[13:33] the wait's going to be longer. And so now with these 720 dune machines and his dune this like

[13:41] amazing game you just have to play to believe, maybe, maybe, I think they're going to end up

[13:48] selling everyone. I really do. They're going to end up selling everyone in a world in which

[13:53] there is like an unlimited amount of these stern machines and nothing stern feels special.

[14:00] And Jersey Jack only has one game on the line a year. You know, a lot of people come into this hobby.

[14:07] They get excited. They get bit by the bug. And if you walk over to a distributor's lineup and you

[14:13] see a dune and it's on the showroom floor and you can get one instantly, they're going to sell them.

[14:20] They're absolutely going to sell them. And yeah, the game is only going to get better

[14:24] as they polish the code more. I don't think it's going to go up in value. I don't think like a

[14:30] year from now it's going to be Pirates of the Caribbean and it's going to be selling for like

[14:35] 15 to $20,000. It's never going to be that kind of theme. In fact, when you go on pin side now,

[14:42] it's so comical. Look how many Pirates of the Caribbean from Jersey Jack pinball are for sale

[14:50] right now. The last time I checked, I want to say there was like seven or eight of them. And you

[14:56] got to remember they didn't make many of those games and it's just comical because people are

[15:00] still trying to get like 20 grand plus for the LE and 30 to 40 for the CE. I think that ship has

[15:09] sailed. There's so many better games coming out. Pirates was cool, but man, it's not the end all

[15:17] be all. It was an overly complicated game. It doesn't even have the assets in it. I still can't

[15:23] understand the love affair with the game. If you love pirates, there's no Jack Sparrow. There's no

[15:30] theme song from Pirates. I get it's like inspired by it all, but there's barely any footage from the

[15:35] movies in the game itself. And now that we're going to get like Sonic from Sega from the 80s,

[15:42] that's going to crush. And then we're going to get back to the future. Are we? Have you noticed

[15:48] what's going on over at Dutch right now? And I think Dutch pinball is in a really fragile place

[15:55] within the community right now. And I'm not seeing what I want to see from them. I think they are

[16:02] taking for granted the second, third, fourth chance that this community has given them. And

[16:10] they're letting little things like just communicating what's going on with these toppers for Alice

[16:18] really start to create a larger audience that is becoming a growingly skeptical audience

[16:28] on whether or not this company is in it for the long run, whether or not they're going to be

[16:34] viable into the future when their customer service and their communications leaves

[16:42] this much to be desired. But it's more than that. It's more about the point that they didn't even come

[16:49] close to achieving what they said they were going to do. If I tell you, I'm going to have for you

[16:59] by the end of this year 500 episodes of Canada's pinball podcast. And I only managed 300, but I

[17:09] still want you to be a subscriber. And I still want you to go in on the next like year subscription.

[17:16] You would be like, come on, man, you didn't live up to your end of the bargain. Now, I do think

[17:22] that Dutch will absolutely honor all of the refund requests. The weird thing they did is say that

[17:30] refund requests are open now all month. And they're spending this entire month in this like weird

[17:38] quagmire communication space around these toppers. So talk about bad timing, Barry and team. This is

[17:46] not the month to start to make people feel insecure and anxious. This is the month where you should

[17:54] be doubling down on how you're going to want to keep your Alice order because we've got something so

[18:01] magical coming at the end of the year. Have you even heard them try to keep people in on the game?

[18:09] Have you even heard anything? It's like Melvin made the promise that if you own an Alice and you

[18:15] keep your order, you're going to get back to the future. I mean, that's basically what he said,

[18:19] but it just seems like they're not all in on it together. This company needs to get together and

[18:25] figure it out. It's not hard to figure it out, but they've got to become more transparent.

[18:33] I remember when the Bowsky manufacturing was going well, they were doing factory tours. I want to see

[18:39] more of that with Alice. We know Raza's next. You've already announced Raza. So where is like

[18:48] anything to do with that game? They need a strategy. It's almost like they need to be friends with a

[18:55] guy that works in marketing that talks to them for free almost every single day, if not week.

[19:03] And I'm saying this on my show because I just don't get it. I really don't get what the issue is.

[19:10] How can you have like 20 or 30 people without a topper and then start making toppers again?

[19:16] And those 20 to 30 people aren't the first 20 to 30 toppers that go out the door. They don't go on

[19:23] the new builds. They go in a box and they go to the people that have been waiting for months.

[19:30] And those people deserve immediate communication the moment the new vendor is making new toppers.

[19:36] You know, there's something to be said about being transparent and being a company that understands

[19:43] the importance of that. Like your brand every single month that goes by is an opportunity

[19:50] for you to either elevate your pinball brand or damage it. It's really that simple. I look at

[19:57] a brand like CGC completely damaged. I look at a brand like American Pinball beyond repair.

[20:04] They are American Pinball beyond repair. I put something up on Facebook. It's like this company

[20:10] acts like the old employees that they fired and treat it like crap are not going to now come out

[20:17] of the woodwork and articulate what a garbage experience they had at American Pinball. They

[20:24] are basically like waving the red flag. You have to be a moron to go work at American Pinball

[20:30] because here's my experience. They're going to treat you poorly. You're going to go in thinking

[20:36] you're going to be a part of this pinball industry you love and they're going to burn you. They almost

[20:41] want to make like PSAs to stay away from American Pinball. Okay, CGC. I don't like them as a brand.

[20:48] American Pinball beyond repair. Companies like Padready and Pinball Brothers. I'm kind of indifferent.

[20:54] They haven't ripped anybody off but I just don't see them on the same level as the companies that

[21:01] are executing better. If I ask you right now, who are the pinball brothers? Some of you might know.

[21:06] Most of you probably don't. If I ask you right now, who is the team over at Padready Gaming?

[21:12] You're coming up blanks. You're coming up blanks. You don't have names. You don't have faces. That's

[21:18] inexcusable in my honest opinion. Any pinball manufacturer out there should be in front of

[21:25] the community on a weekly basis. It's your job. I'm in front of the pinball community multiple

[21:31] times a week and it's not even my job. So if you are a pinball company, you should be out there

[21:38] every single week and the faces of your company should be out there. That is what will attract new

[21:45] customers. It will give your brand personality and it forges a personal connection between your company

[21:51] and the community. That connection is everything. Look, Stern does a decent job with all of its

[21:57] content every week. It's got the Friday factory tour. They're always putting up content. They are.

[22:03] Like they're trying. They've got people where their jobs are solely that. I mean,

[22:07] someone's handling Stern's social media content. That is their job. And so they respond to people.

[22:13] They're a big organization. They've got something like, I want to say Stern has half a million people

[22:17] like them on Facebook. Maybe it's more. Maybe it's a couple million. It's something really large. So

[22:22] when they speak, people are listening and Stern does what they do. Jersey Jack, I feel like their

[22:28] stuff is very polished, but it's a little bit more ad-like. And I would like Jersey Jack not to

[22:34] only hit me with a plethora of polish ad-like objects. I would like Jersey Jack to hit me with

[22:41] more of the personalities. I want to hear more from Brett, from Eric, from Jack, from Steve,

[22:49] from Joe, from Keith. You know, they've got the personalities. Tom Capara is amazing, man.

[22:54] That guy should be out there more often. Hey guys, what's up? It's Tom. Let me walk you around our

[22:59] factory and show you something special. You know, maybe he stands in front of some parts that just

[23:04] came in for our next game. I bet you're wondering what's inside this box. Simple stuff like that.

[23:11] I know they're busy building games, but it's more than just building games. You've got to be busy

[23:15] building your brand in pinball and it should never stop. When I think of spooky pinball,

[23:21] they do a great job. They just showed the Beetlejuice test units on the line and OMG.

[23:28] Have you seen how beautiful those games look when they're standing over the actual games

[23:34] and the factory lights are on? I can't wait for you guys to get your Beetlejuice. I can't

[23:40] wait to see what happens when this game starts going out to people. I think it's going to be

[23:47] special. I think it's really going to raise the bar. I think it's going to be the game you put

[23:52] in your lineup and you look over at it and you look over at some of these recent sterns and you're

[23:59] going to just see like the pinball industry has changed. The bar is now raised. I think Harry

[24:06] Potter and Beetlejuice have elevated to the top. I think right below them is like the Winchester's,

[24:14] the Dunes. The stuff is looking really good. It's like right up there. I think the stern stuff

[24:21] needs to improve. They need to improve. They need to make the stuff look better. I hope they do.

[24:26] I hope they aim for higher quality instead of higher quantity. My worry is Stern is going to

[24:33] chase the money and not chase the legacy. They are really going to be about volume, volume, volume

[24:39] because now their customers are the private equity investors. That is my take on the modern world

[24:45] lately. The world has become a weird place where we are putting simple profits over people. Everything

[24:51] is about how big you can get at the sacrifice of how creative you can be. How large your organization

[24:57] can become and pay back to shareholders is way more important than are you actually putting

[25:03] something of real value and innovation into the world. It used to be like you had to create the

[25:09] value to create the money. I don't really feel like that's the case anymore. I feel like the

[25:13] modern capitalistic world is kind of broken. Remember the days when there was like only,

[25:19] only Bugatti was like the supercar of the world and we all were like, okay,

[25:22] there's this, this, this, Ferrari Lamborghini, then Bugatti. Look at it today now. There's like 20 car

[25:28] manufacturers making multi-million dollar cars. Crazy, crazy. And here we are complaining about

[25:34] pinball toppers everybody. But anyway, let's see what happens on Friday. If we get the Pokemon

[25:39] announcement, it's about to get real. If we don't, we're going to be still in that holding period.

[25:44] I'm going to hit a bug in Luke. They are probably listening right now. When are the first Beetle

[25:49] Juice is going out? I want to talk to the people that get the first Beetle Juice machines and see

[25:53] what it's like to put that gem into your game room. Everybody have a great day. It's Wednesday.

[25:59] It's hump day. About to go have pizza with my boys. Thank you so much for your subscriptions.

[26:04] Thank you so much for the support. So much fun. I can't wait to see what happens in pinball this

[26:10] year, people. It's about to get crazy. I know some stuff I can't tell you yet, but man, it's about

[26:15] to get crazy. The cream is going to rise to the top and everything else is going to sink because

[26:21] almost every game now is like 10 grand or more and you are not going to buy on just a whim anymore.

[26:28] You're not going to buy just because something is new. You're going to buy because something is

[26:32] magical, something is special and something is worthy of being inside your game room or at your

[26:39] location if you're an operator. That's how it's going to be. Canada out. Yo, man, let's get out of here.

[26:44] Where to, your mother?
