# Transcript: 2022-03-22_Mr._Nordman_Lets_Talk_About_Your_Ramps.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-14 09:09  
**Model**: whisper-base  
**Duration**: 2:24:34

---

[00:00] The pinball network is online.

[00:06] Launching.

[00:08] Silver ball chronicles.

[00:17] Hit the whamps.

[00:18] Hit the whamps.

[00:19] Oh God.

[00:20] I listened to that interview and now I'm even more upset with that stupid voice.

[00:25] Where it's canon?

[00:27] It's supposed to be Nick Adams, American actor from New York City with a legitimate New

[00:31] York accent.

[00:33] So it's supposed to be him.

[00:34] It's like, oh God, that's even worse.

[00:57] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us with Silver Ball Chronicles.

[01:15] I'm David Dennis with my co-host Ron Go Leafs Go Hallet.

[01:21] How you doing, fella?

[01:22] Go as in the Toronto Maple Leafs.

[01:24] The Toronto Maple Leafs.

[01:26] Actually, I'm a ranger fan.

[01:27] Sorry.

[01:28] No, I got my friend, my friend in Toronto.

[01:30] As most people know, I lived in Toronto for 10 years.

[01:34] I've got a friend.

[01:35] He's got my spot all picked out on Young Street in Toronto.

[01:39] I am so excited.

[01:41] He's been sleeping there for 13 years on the street, but he still got my spot saved.

[01:48] This is the year, Ron.

[01:49] Dead silence.

[01:50] How you doing?

[01:52] How was your week?

[01:53] I was alright.

[01:55] Yeah, we're jumping into Silver Ball Chronicles a little bit quicker this time.

[01:59] We had a big gap between our last episode and the previous one before that.

[02:05] The last episode we did was inside the mind of Lyman Sheets, which was a bit of a tribute

[02:08] for you and I for Lyman.

[02:11] And all that he gave to Pinball, we've got a lot of positive feedback on that episode.

[02:17] And I wanted to say thank you to all of those who reached out via email at Silver Ball Chronicles

[02:23] at gmail.com.

[02:25] We also had if you comments on pinside and a few other various spots.

[02:30] So thank you for that feedback, but I'm just happy, Ron, that we were able to draw a large

[02:37] underlying over the amazing career that Lyman had even in the wake of his death.

[02:44] I played a game of attack from ours just yesterday where I got my first ever dirty pool.

[02:50] I've never done that before.

[02:51] Oh, very cool.

[02:53] And then right after that, I got the billion hurry up start of total annihilation.

[02:58] So thank you, Lyman.

[02:59] Also, it's been a rough go here so far in 2022, but Barry Ausler has passed away and

[03:07] we want to remind everybody if they want to learn more about Barry Ausler, there's basically

[03:12] two episodes dedicated to him in the archives at silverball Chronicles.com or you can go

[03:18] back in your pod catcher.

[03:21] If you find the dedicated silver ball Chronicles feed, it's easier to scroll back and find the

[03:26] archive, but go back and listen to just the amazing things that Barry could did for all

[03:33] of us here in pinball.

[03:34] I'd like to think that somewhere Barry and Python, Angela were together again.

[03:38] Yes, they're fighting, being angry and Python is still missing deadlines.

[03:43] Yes.

[03:44] Anything exciting happening in the hobby?

[03:47] We got anything coming up here that you're really excited for?

[03:49] You're all in the tournament scene at the moment?

[03:51] Just playing more games, I guess.

[03:54] Rush launch party coming up.

[03:55] So looking forward to playing more of Rush.

[03:57] I mean, you have to like Rush, right?

[03:59] You're Canadian.

[04:00] It's a law.

[04:01] So we did get a lot of feedback, Ron, about my jokes, about synth music and my comments

[04:08] about being over Rush.

[04:11] Now that being said, as a Canadian, I rush is pretty great.

[04:17] I'm not going to lie.

[04:19] I listen to it semi-regularly.

[04:22] It's on the radio all the time.

[04:23] We have a thing here called shoppers drug mart, which is sort of like, I guess, your CVS

[04:27] down there.

[04:29] You're walking through the aisles.

[04:30] There's Rush playing, right?

[04:32] Tom Sawyer, you just hear non-stop.

[04:36] It's still an amazing song, even though you hear it just all the time, right?

[04:40] But Rush is pretty great.

[04:42] I do enjoy them nonetheless.

[04:44] They just released a new video for YYZ.

[04:46] I'm sorry.

[04:47] YYZ.

[04:48] YYZ.

[04:49] You guys spelled things weird too, so I won't say anything.

[04:52] I have no idea what you're talking about, Ron.

[04:55] Mm-hmm.

[04:56] You're my favorite.

[04:57] Yep, that's right.

[04:58] I saw on a keyboard selection thing I was logging in and I was changing the keyboard

[05:04] settings.

[05:05] I bought a new keyboard.

[05:06] In it, I could choose British English traditional or American English simplified.

[05:11] I thought that was pretty slick.

[05:13] Yeah, and then you were still looking for the Annie Key.

[05:15] You couldn't find it.

[05:17] Exactly.

[05:18] Congratulations on multi-morphic on Weird Al.

[05:21] Looks like a lot of fun.

[05:22] Interested to see how it is.

[05:25] And I'm a big Weird Al fan.

[05:28] Haven't listened to him in 20 years since the running is with scissors album, but other

[05:32] than that, a great get for them.

[05:35] Remember if it gets cold, reheat it.

[05:41] Click out our Facebook page, facebook.com slash silver ball chronicles.

[05:46] That way you can engage with us in our conversations and chats.

[05:50] Thanks so much to all those people that provide us feedback and chat along with us.

[05:54] You often make me smile.

[05:57] Ron hates all of you.

[05:58] He never comments in there.

[05:59] I hate most people.

[06:00] That is true.

[06:01] If you check out thisweekandpinball.com slash silver ball hyphen chronicles, you can

[06:08] leave us a review so others can find us in the pinball promoters database.

[06:14] That's where you find all the podcasts and twitch streams and YouTube channels available

[06:17] for those of you out there.

[06:20] If you find us in your pod catcher, you see us on Apple or Google or any of those places,

[06:25] please leave us a five star review so others can find us.

[06:27] That helps us out in our search rankings.

[06:29] You can also turn on the automatic downloads.

[06:31] So if I have to fix something or cut something out, you'll be able to get the unedited version.

[06:38] Let's go to some of the latest reviews, Ron.

[06:40] Yeah, you have scams from Apple Podcast.

[06:42] Was that the username?

[06:44] That's the username scams.

[06:45] I thought you were getting scammed from Apple Podcast.

[06:48] Okay, scams says, really enjoy the show a lot.

[06:51] I do find myself listening often to episodes more than once.

[06:54] The only constructive criticism I have is that they could get to the specific subject

[06:58] of the episode quicker.

[06:59] Ooh, it's not going to like this one.

[07:01] I think the corrections, pinside discussions might be better suited for being placed at

[07:05] the end of the episode.

[07:08] Oops.

[07:09] Whoops.

[07:10] Great feedback.

[07:11] Thank you, scams.

[07:12] That really actually is pretty good feedback.

[07:14] I don't put it at the end mostly because I want to get to the subject matter.

[07:17] And then when I'm done with the subject matter, I don't want to talk to Ron for another

[07:20] month.

[07:21] So that's why I stick it to the beginning so we can get the banter out of the way.

[07:24] Ah, yeah.

[07:25] Maybe I could put a time code in it like the episode starts at so and so.

[07:28] So you can skip it if you want to.

[07:31] Maybe I'll do that in our show notes going.

[07:32] Good idea.

[07:33] Yeah.

[07:34] We got T-shirts, of course.

[07:35] Be sure to check out silverballswag.com to jump in and order some silver ball chronicles

[07:43] merch.

[07:44] Get your T-shirts and your hoodies and your mugs and your stickers.

[07:47] Every dollar helps us out here with the podcast so that we can get Ron to all those tournaments

[07:53] in Wisconsin so he can make it up into the top 100.

[07:56] No, you're not paying for me going to tournaments.

[07:59] Just a late no.

[08:02] There'll be someone who thinks that's true.

[08:04] And the one dollar we get for the T-shirts is not going to help that.

[08:09] That's not even going to pay for the flight.

[08:10] That's not even going to get me into the tournament.

[08:12] No, but it is going to get you the chocolate bar when you're there.

[08:16] Hmm.

[08:17] Brody, you seem like you're like a Twix kind of guy.

[08:19] You're a Twix kind of guy?

[08:21] I can't eat chocolate anymore.

[08:23] Oh, yeah.

[08:24] Oh, yeah.

[08:25] I heard about that.

[08:26] Yeah.

[08:27] Yeah.

[08:28] That's my 81 of slam tilt podcast.

[08:30] You want to hear all about Ron's diet.

[08:33] Yeah, that's my that's my other podcast slam tilt podcast.

[08:36] Ding.

[08:38] Ron, let's jump into today's topic.

[08:41] Ramps are mesmerizing hypnotic.

[08:45] They create an excitement deep inside you when you shoot them.

[08:49] It's like you can almost feel the ball rolling around the bend of the ramp.

[08:53] To many people, pinball is ramps.

[08:58] Without ramps, there would be no pinball, which is why people complained a lot about beetles,

[09:02] I guess.

[09:03] In fact, one of my non pinball friends saw my tron for the first time in my living room

[09:09] and he said right away, oh, I want to shoot that ramp.

[09:14] The only goal that this person had after not playing pinball for 25 years was, oh, I got

[09:21] to shoot that ramp.

[09:22] This Ron are pinball.

[09:25] The undisputed king of ramps without a doubt is Dennis Nordman.

[09:32] This month, Dennis Nordman, let's talk about your ramps.

[09:37] Ron, what do you love about ramps?

[09:39] I like plastic long flowing ramps that do all kinds of crazy stuff.

[09:44] In general, there is plastic ramps and there are like metal habit trails.

[09:50] No, habit trail is something other than a ramp.

[09:53] A habit trail is usually the stuff after the ramp, the ball goes through.

[09:56] Think Star Trek next generation when you launch the ball.

[09:59] That's a big habit trail.

[10:01] Okay.

[10:02] So we're talking a plastic ramp and then a bend and a turn and then plastic return.

[10:07] Then we're talking a plastic entryway to the ramp and then a metal habit trail or a

[10:14] metal entrance and a metal habit trail or a metal entrance and a plastic habit trail.

[10:19] Wow.

[10:20] That's a lot of information right there.

[10:21] We are getting into the weeds here, Ron.

[10:23] Wow.

[10:24] I mean, most of the original ramps were just like just flat metal pieces that just it's

[10:29] just a ramp.

[10:30] You just go up it.

[10:32] Then they started using plastic.

[10:34] Now nowadays this combination, you have some metal, some plastic.

[10:38] You can do more with the plastic though.

[10:40] You can do making do more things.

[10:41] John Papaduke probably king of the plastic ramp.

[10:44] Yeah.

[10:45] Just yeah.

[10:46] Like what Capsack are alone, the ramps in there are insane.

[10:50] My preference is always a metal ramp because I like to hear the noise of the ball like

[10:59] shrinking.

[11:00] Is that a word?

[11:01] I don't think so.

[11:02] Up the ramp where it hits it and it goes and you can hear it kind of grind down the

[11:06] habit trail.

[11:07] I love that.

[11:08] I'm playing a Steve Richie game.

[11:09] I want to have those plastic ramps.

[11:12] When you're playing a Dennis Nordman game, you want to have those plastic ramps.

[11:15] Think white water vacuum formed plastic ramps.

[11:19] This is this is what we're getting into folks.

[11:20] I hope you are parked on the side of the road or you're sitting down because this is a

[11:25] wild episode.

[11:26] A wild episode of ramp action.

[11:29] Did you know what white water, the ramp replacement kit, you know, if you want to replace all your

[11:33] ramps, it's like the most expensive one you can buy.

[11:37] More plastics, more ramps.

[11:38] Yeah, you basically have to buy a holding game.

[11:41] Yeah, kind of.

[11:42] Let's dive in here, right?

[11:43] So Dennis Nordman he's from Columbus, Ohio, not Columbus, Georgia.

[11:49] That's from Tommy Boy.

[11:51] Oh, I never let him.

[11:53] Of course she didn't.

[11:54] That's an out of satellite movie, right?

[11:56] Oh, God, I don't really like out of here.

[11:59] It's Chris Farley man.

[12:00] It's Chris Farley, Tommy Boy.

[12:01] Tommy, oh, oh, yeah, it's any other guy.

[12:04] And we're off to a friggin great start this month, Ron.

[12:11] As with most people, Ron, when you discover pinball, you discover it when you're young.

[12:16] And it makes some sort of impact on your life that you're like, wow, that's kind of neat.

[12:20] And then you end up rediscovering it quite a few times throughout your life.

[12:24] Well, Dennis Norman says, I think the first pinball machine I ever saw, I was probably seven

[12:28] or eight.

[12:29] One of my father's friends had one and I didn't play it very much.

[12:32] I just remember being fascinated by all the bright lights and things that may even been

[12:36] a flipperless game.

[12:37] And it was early to mid fifties.

[12:40] Very cool.

[12:41] That's a long time ago.

[12:42] And you've got a flipperless game.

[12:43] That's kind of an unusual thing to have.

[12:45] I mean, even a pinball machine nowadays is unusual to have a little out of weird flipperless

[12:49] bingo game somewhere in a basement.

[12:52] That's pretty neat.

[12:54] Actually even in the mid, let's see, mid fifties, you would have probably less than ten

[12:58] years of games with flippers.

[13:00] Imagine, that's right.

[13:01] Yeah, so Humpty Dumpty would have changed everything with the flippers and we're talking

[13:05] probably a bingo of some sort.

[13:07] That could have been a pinball machine.

[13:08] Yeah, yeah, it could have been with the pop bumpers and stuff where you're doing mostly

[13:12] nudging, right?

[13:13] All nudging.

[13:14] Yeah, what to do is we'll do an episode on one of those pre pinball machine if you will.

[13:21] So pre-war probably.

[13:22] Yeah, sometime.

[13:23] I just, it's hard to find sources because they didn't have podcasts when guys like

[13:29] Wayne Nions and stuff were doing building games.

[13:32] It's hard to find the sources, but I'll dig a little deeper maybe sometime.

[13:36] Also, if I wanted to buy the pinball compendium for those old years, that's like $60.

[13:42] And I don't know if I really want to learn that much about them.

[13:46] Send your hate mail to silverballcroticlesachemail.com.

[13:49] Dennis didn't rediscover pinball until he was about 20 or 21 when he found a huge arcade

[14:00] in Sandusky, Ohio.

[14:03] Everybody of course knowing Sandusky, Ohio is the center of Callahan auto parts from Tommy

[14:09] Boy.

[14:10] Never saw it.

[14:12] Dennis went to Ohio State University where he studied industrial design.

[14:17] As a project for his senior year, he designed a futuristic pinball cabinet, which he would

[14:23] use as an excuse to go play pinball and call it research.

[14:29] He's a smart man.

[14:31] That summer, Dennis needed back surgery.

[14:34] And while he recovered, he built a full size pinball cabinet.

[14:39] And it was designed to be made of fiberglass.

[14:43] That sounds pretty slick, doesn't it?

[14:46] It had an interesting shape and it was unique in that it was on a pedestal.

[14:49] It didn't have four legs.

[14:50] Yeah, I think a pedestal, having a pedestal is kind of unique.

[14:53] It's kind of because when we think of a pinball, you know, machine, it has that very

[14:57] traditional, you know, four legs, looks like a coffin, got the thing on the top.

[15:04] That was one of the big concerns that people had when they heard deep root was changing

[15:07] the mixture of the design of a cabinet.

[15:09] Was it going to look like pinball?

[15:11] This does not sound like pinball, right?

[15:12] Well, Dennis had designed it so all the circuit boards and components would be housed in

[15:16] the pedestal.

[15:17] The play field level was about three or four inches lower than a regular pinball game

[15:20] at the time.

[15:21] But it had raised areas where you can rest your hands for the flipper buttons.

[15:25] His reason for making it lower was that so younger kids could see the play field a lot

[15:28] easier than on a regular pinball game.

[15:30] Hmm, neat.

[15:31] You know, he's in industrial design.

[15:33] He gets to kind of do something fun.

[15:35] He's trying to figure out what are the issues with pinball, a cabinetry, what are some of

[15:39] the problems that we could solve with pinball cabinetry.

[15:43] This is this, this might, you know, it shows that he's a critical thinker, I think, right?

[15:48] He's thinking about what are the issues.

[15:50] How can we fix those issues?

[15:51] How can we make things different?

[15:54] Very, very cool.

[15:55] Eventually, he would show this cabinet design to Schaefer distributing in Columbus.

[16:01] They thought it was pretty cool.

[16:04] Schaefer distributing at the time was one of the largest distributors in that sort of

[16:09] north, you know, western, northeast kind of area, right?

[16:13] Dennis says, I put the cabinet in my van and drove from Columbus to Chicago.

[16:16] They made a presentation at Bali pinball division in Bentonville and he was then hired as

[16:21] a cabinet designer.

[16:23] This is the post 1981 boom.

[16:26] Yeah, we're at the beginning of the downturn.

[16:29] We are going to bring out some information here in a future episode probably around the

[16:34] death of pinball and we'll call it, you know, Bali or Bali midway.

[16:39] But at this time, Bali is looking to try to shake things up a little bit.

[16:44] They're trying to reinvigorate things as that trend kind of happens on the downward

[16:49] side.

[16:50] So Dennis Norman comes in as a cabinet designer and he makes the most iconic and perfect

[16:56] pinball cabinet of all time.

[16:57] The rapid fire cabinet.

[16:59] Ladies and gentlemen, you can blame Dennis Nordman for sent our to eight ball deluxe

[17:04] Ellie, Mr. and Mrs. Pacman and rapid fire.

[17:07] There are people who love that cabinet.

[17:09] So just to let you know, and the thing is rapid fire was it, it was a direct rip off of

[17:16] hyper ball.

[17:17] Bali knew that Williams was working on hyper ball.

[17:20] So they wanted to come up with their own version of hyper ball.

[17:22] So they came up with rapid fire, which you've ever played that.

[17:26] It's basically, it's like a combination pinball machine, video game type of, well, a pinball

[17:32] machine, video game elements.

[17:33] You have a physical cannon.

[17:34] You move around and fire it stuff like actual balls.

[17:38] What's better?

[17:39] Hyper ball or rapid fire?

[17:40] I think I played rapid fire maybe once, but I played hyper ball a ton of times.

[17:45] Okay.

[17:46] The hurry is still out on.

[17:47] Yeah.

[17:48] And hyper ball.

[17:49] I never knew what I was doing.

[17:50] So tune in later on, folks.

[17:51] We'll bring out Ron's review of rapid fire on a future episode.

[17:56] Yeah.

[17:57] But they thought rapid fire was going to be like the wave of the future and it bombed.

[17:59] So they had a ton of cabinets left over.

[18:01] That's why they used them for all those Ellie versions that you just mentioned.

[18:05] Exactly.

[18:06] Dennis Nordman would say, and I quote, they had a lot of rapid fire cabinets left over.

[18:12] Don't hear.

[18:15] This is around the time that Balli became Balli Midway.

[18:19] It was about a year or so that Dennis Nordman was there and the merger took place and Dennis

[18:25] was laid off.

[18:27] Dennis was working with some redemption games after that.

[18:30] He had some ideas for a toy company in Chicago called, wait a second, Marvin Glass and

[18:36] Associates.

[18:37] Remember them?

[18:38] Yeah.

[18:39] George Goldman has knows all about them.

[18:39] But once he was there for a short period of time, he was there for a cup of coffee in

[18:44] the big time and he was laid off within a year.

[18:49] He then started at Got Leab in Chicago and worked on submitting ideas for the video game

[18:54] division.

[18:56] Everybody was tossing money at video and it didn't matter if you had a good idea or a

[18:59] bad idea, you got to build a video game.

[19:03] After a year, Got Leab, which was owned by Columbia Pictures and then Coca-Cola after

[19:07] that went through another sale to become Milestar and Dennis was once again laid off.

[19:14] So he is having a hard go at the beginning of his career in pinball.

[19:19] Dennis made a drawing of a pinball game and submitted the idea to Bally.

[19:23] Dennis says, my theme at the time, it was called Ranger based on the Army Rangers.

[19:30] That's right after the movie Rambo would come out.

[19:32] They liked it and they hired me.

[19:34] Ron, you've seen Rambo?

[19:35] I've seen Rambo.

[19:36] Rambo was that, so I was incredibly young.

[19:40] Actually, I might not have even been around the first Rambo came out.

[19:43] Was it really influential?

[19:45] Because we see that the influence of Rambo for some reason in pinball pops up a lot.

[19:50] I've seen several Rambo inspired games.

[19:55] Even games like, what is it?

[19:58] I think it Raven?

[19:59] Yeah, with the woman on there, it was just like the female Rambo.

[20:03] This underlines the importance of relationships.

[20:08] Dennis knew a lot of people at Bally from his time there.

[20:12] And as he had sort of worked around pinball in Chicago, he got to know people like Jim

[20:18] Patlu, Greg Ferres, Greg Kameck.

[20:21] They were, you know, he's able to build those relationships.

[20:24] And even though he's only lasting a year at each one of these individual jobs, he's

[20:29] built strong, positive relationships with people there.

[20:34] Everything in life is about relationships.

[20:38] And Ron, here's life lessons with Dave.

[20:41] Are you excited?

[20:42] Oh my God.

[20:43] Is this a new segment that people will hate?

[20:44] It is.

[20:45] Okay.

[20:46] Always be nice.

[20:47] Do your best.

[20:49] Keep your friendships because you never know when you may need someone's help.

[20:54] Build your personal brand and think about what you want people to say at your funeral

[21:00] and live today so that that comes true.

[21:04] So in other words, be nice to who you mean on the way up because you may meet them on

[21:07] the way down.

[21:08] Exactly.

[21:09] Literally it's the same thing.

[21:10] Okay.

[21:11] But this is more positive and less sad when it's okay.

[21:14] This is the important thing that I think Dennis got.

[21:17] As he was a hard worker, he was a smart guy and he kept his nose clean and he kept grinding.

[21:22] And people respected that.

[21:24] And he got to make a game.

[21:25] The greatest game of all time.

[21:28] Special force.

[21:29] Yeah.

[21:30] This is a combat military theme Rambo rip off.

[21:36] It's from September of 86.

[21:38] It's one of these Bally 6803 games.

[21:41] And we'll talk about that in a second.

[21:43] Cells 2,750 units.

[21:45] Not very many.

[21:47] Designed Dennis Dornman art by Tony Ramuni.

[21:50] And we'll remember him from doing the art in Embryon.

[21:53] Black Knight.

[21:54] Yeah.

[21:55] He's famous for Black Knight.

[21:57] Very very interesting style of art.

[22:01] This is the sound by Neil Faulkner.

[22:04] Software by Raymond Merchant.

[22:08] Have you played Special Force?

[22:11] Oh yeah.

[22:12] Of course I played it.

[22:13] It's a solid state game.

[22:14] I played almost every one of them.

[22:16] I have played a lot of Special Force.

[22:20] I had a friend of mine.

[22:21] The first time I ever sort of got into pinball and I met a guy and he had some machines.

[22:27] One of the machines that he had was Special Force.

[22:30] Doesn't it have the missile thing?

[22:32] It does.

[22:33] Yeah, you hit a missile and it does a little light show and a missile comes in knocks

[22:37] a drop target down for you.

[22:39] Which is pretty cool.

[22:40] They have these memory drop targets.

[22:41] It also has the nudgeable out lanes which was really cool.

[22:44] And it's very green.

[22:46] Very green.

[22:47] Very green.

[22:48] The plot wall plastics anyway.

[22:49] Or very green.

[22:50] Because you're in the jungle.

[22:52] It's a really cool.

[22:53] It's a kind of a cool game.

[22:55] Dennis would say that since this was his first game, Jim Patla did a lot to help him through

[23:02] it.

[23:03] He actually wired the whole game himself and hated every moment of it.

[23:08] That has to be the worst part of a building a game.

[23:10] He's running all those freaking wires.

[23:12] Especially in this era.

[23:13] Yeah, Dennis would say he knows almost nothing about electrical work or programming.

[23:17] He can change a light bulb and that's about it.

[23:20] Dennis's strength is definitely a design of a play field and interesting ideas and

[23:29] not necessarily doing the grunt work if you will or the really difficult annoying tedious

[23:35] tasks.

[23:36] Let's put it that way.

[23:37] The gameplay of this is particularly interesting.

[23:42] This is where the memory drop targets coming on the left side.

[23:46] It has in line drop targets.

[23:47] Very famous a ballet staple.

[23:50] You have a second set of pinball of flipper buttons on the side.

[23:56] The extra flipper button you can build up missiles by shooting a very set of dangerous targets.

[24:04] You build up your missiles and then you can shoot down these tanks which are these

[24:07] drop targets.

[24:08] Those reveal a multiplier shot behind them.

[24:11] It's kind of neat.

[24:13] It's also kind of lazy because you can set how many you get right out of the gate.

[24:17] How many missiles you get right out of the gate?

[24:20] It also has two, the memory drop targets and what's the difference between a regular

[24:24] drop target and a memory drop target, Ron?

[24:27] Typically it can control it being up or down and remember its state.

[24:31] Hence memory targets.

[24:32] It has these cool bad guy drop targets.

[24:35] That's like Raven or the Scalary Brothers and Ghostbusters where they've got they kind

[24:40] of blocked shots on the right side.

[24:43] Let's talk about the crazy plunge ramp thing that's going on here on the right side.

[24:51] That's its patented name by the way.

[24:53] Crazy launch ramp plunge thing.

[24:55] I think that was what it was called in the flyer.

[24:58] I will include links to all of these in their show notes.

[25:02] Just go ahead and click in and take a look and search through IPDB in the show notes.

[25:07] I'll show you the multi level layered vacuum formed ramp that's there.

[25:16] The coolest part about the plunge on this game is that when the ball is in the trough,

[25:23] everything is completely silent and the lights are all off on the play field and you hear

[25:29] like crickets, like there's nothing like like jungle noises and then you can short plunge

[25:37] and catch the ball and do like a sneak attack.

[25:40] Or if you plunge the ball full plunge it goes into the pop bumpers which are shaped like

[25:45] you know, Vietnamese huts or something.

[25:50] It's it's theme integration.

[25:51] I think at its finest.

[25:54] What do you think?

[25:55] I think we need to see the flyer.

[25:57] The next trend explodes with special force.

[26:01] The next trend is trademarked.

[26:03] They literally trademarked that phrase.

[26:05] So they must have thought that was going to be a big deal.

[26:07] I noticed that.

[26:08] I was going to bring that up.

[26:09] Special theme, special features, special earnings, rockets and bombs explode with bursts

[26:15] of light and sound.

[26:16] Attack drop targets with rockets without using the ball helicopter funnel ramp ball can

[26:22] be taken hostage.

[26:24] Shills.

[26:25] Wow.

[26:26] Skillshots free hostages.

[26:28] Two million point escape bonus.

[26:30] Multi ball play.

[26:32] Yeah.

[26:33] The whole ball can be taken hostage thing.

[26:36] I know that that sounds pretty awesome, but basically what that is is it means you can

[26:40] lock a ball.

[26:41] But it sounds way better when you say it that way.

[26:44] Sounds way better.

[26:45] Is it marketing?

[26:46] Marketing is true.

[26:47] I want to play this now after reading this flyer.

[26:49] Be part of the next trend.

[26:51] Check out special force at your ballet midway distributor today.

[26:54] Oh, I'm in.

[26:56] It's an irresistible force.

[26:57] Did you know it has factory installed mylar on key wear points?

[27:01] Three.

[27:02] No, it has manual free testing.

[27:05] Wow.

[27:06] So what is that?

[27:07] What are we talking about with these 6803s and their manual free testing?

[27:11] Probably just means because it has alpha numeric display so we can tell you what you're doing

[27:16] so you don't have to look at the manual.

[27:18] I'm assuming that's what it means.

[27:19] Yeah.

[27:20] The worst part about probably the 6803 cabinets besides being made at a cardboard.

[27:26] Well, the worst thing about 6803s are the cabinets and the stupid number pad.

[27:30] So the number pad I think might be what they're talking about when it comes to testing manual

[27:35] free testing.

[27:36] I actually think they're talking about this alpha numeric because it'll tell you what you're

[27:39] testing.

[27:40] So what is the keypad?

[27:41] Let's wind it back.

[27:42] What is that keypad?

[27:43] It's literally a keypad that's inside the game.

[27:48] You can take it out like hold it in your hand and use it.

[27:51] This is what you use to get into the menu.

[27:52] It's like a really crappy TV.

[27:53] To change the settings.

[27:56] You know, look at stuff that that's what you use.

[27:59] There's no buttons or any like the older games or most of the other games.

[28:03] They have buttons like inside the coin door and you get into like a service menu.

[28:06] This thing you use the pad.

[28:08] It's the wave of the future.

[28:09] The problem is that the pad doesn't work.

[28:11] You can't get into the service menu.

[28:13] Yeah.

[28:14] If you break the pad or it's the pad, it has those.

[28:19] It's like a plastic cover over those little buttons.

[28:22] You see those in those like when you buy those LED lights from China, those photo picture

[28:28] frames that have those like cheap little remotes.

[28:32] Like once you wear that out, you're kind of toast.

[28:35] And also the cabinets are horrible.

[28:38] They are made out of paper mashing.

[28:40] Yeah, yeah.

[28:41] Yeah.

[28:42] Like balsa wood, cardboard.

[28:44] They fall apart easily.

[28:46] Plus they did weird things with some of the cabinets with the shape and stuff.

[28:49] I'll mention around this time.

[28:51] It's when things kind of went downhill at Bali.

[28:54] They started to cost cut.

[28:56] And when 68 or 3 came out, like we're in an era of like for example, special force.

[29:01] The cabinet doesn't say special force on it.

[29:04] It just has generic Bali midway art.

[29:06] We're just as Bali midway.

[29:08] Like where they used to have the squawk and talk board.

[29:11] Then later they had the cheap squawk.

[29:13] It was called.

[29:15] So it cost less money.

[29:16] They also changed the coin door to just this massive ugly black slots in the top coin.

[29:23] They went from one of the probably most expensive elegant, complicated coin doors to a much cheaper,

[29:29] simpler coin door.

[29:30] The worst part about the coin door is that on those, on those sort of older valleys,

[29:35] it had this very silver like start button, right?

[29:38] You put your coins in, you put the start button.

[29:41] Well, what they've done is they've now put the start button on the left side and it's

[29:45] a flipper button.

[29:47] So if you've got a bunch of, you know, coined up amount on that machine and you're playing

[29:53] a single player, you can literally bump that super easy and, and coin up more multiple

[29:58] players, super annoying.

[30:01] But the good thing is they save so much money with all that.

[30:03] They were able to put those extra flipper buttons on the side for the missile function.

[30:08] This also had an alternate theme in Germany.

[30:13] Germans, let's say, had a little bit of a holiday in the rest of Europe in the 1940s,

[30:20] in which they're not particularly proud of nowadays.

[30:24] And because of that, they tend to be very non-military pacifist, right?

[30:30] They try to avoid the use of military and violence in a lot of their entertainment.

[30:37] And well, they decided to change that theme from special force to special force girls.

[30:45] What's the difference between special force and special force girls, Ron?

[30:50] I'm thinking there's a lot of attractive girls on the artwork.

[30:53] That's what I'm thinking.

[30:54] Yeah, I want to see this now.

[30:55] I've never heard of this before.

[30:57] You've never heard of this before?

[30:58] It's a special force girl.

[30:59] I've never seen any of the art for it.

[31:01] What they have done, Ron, is they have changed the back glass away from the original design,

[31:09] which is a guy with a knife, Rambo look and fella.

[31:14] And then a military guy holding a, I don't know, what is that?

[31:20] You're an American.

[31:21] Him 16?

[31:22] Sure.

[31:23] It's got like a helicopter and missiles.

[31:27] And then we've got two sort of cartoon ladies with not a lot of protection if they were

[31:35] to get shot at, but they got the military hats on.

[31:39] So other than that, very effective.

[31:41] And the other major difference is the flyers in German.

[31:44] Do you want to try to read this one, Ron?

[31:47] You mean the German flyers in German?

[31:49] Yes.

[31:50] Yes.

[31:51] Gets Verstart.

[31:53] I don't know what it says.

[31:54] Verstaffend.

[31:56] Imdisen.

[31:57] Verstaffend.

[31:58] Mm, Paris.

[31:59] Maybe it means first in design, first in something.

[32:02] I'm guessing.

[32:03] Oh, I think you're right.

[32:05] I think I'm right.

[32:06] First in design, first in price.

[32:08] Oh, okay.

[32:09] I think that's what that is.

[32:11] This we remember from our Williams episode.

[32:13] Germany was a very, it was a pinball hotbed.

[32:16] They bought, I would say, majority of the export games would go to Germany.

[32:21] Yeah, they had a lot of sway.

[32:23] So if they wanted to have a non-violent, you know, women objectified theme, boy, oh boy,

[32:30] they were gay.

[32:31] Yeah.

[32:32] If they wanted different art, if they wanted lightning flippers, if they wanted stuff

[32:35] changed, they could get it done.

[32:37] They got it.

[32:38] They got it.

[32:39] Dennis would then move on to his next game fairly quickly.

[32:43] That would be party animal, which is the 1980s frat party theme from May of 87.

[32:50] It is a 6803.

[32:52] Cells 2002 50 units.

[32:55] This is art by Pat McMan, sound by Michael Bartlow, and software again by Raymond Merchant.

[33:03] And this is the first of the party trilogy.

[33:05] What is the party trilogy?

[33:08] The party trilogy, which I assume we'll be going through all of them because they're all

[33:11] a Dennis Norman.

[33:12] Party animal, party zone, Doctor Dude.

[33:15] Doctor Dude, who emails us at SilverBall Chronicles at gmail.com quite regularly.

[33:21] I don't know if it's the Doctor Dude, I think it might just be a Doctor.

[33:24] Steve Richie was the designer of a lot of first in pinball.

[33:28] If you go back to Steve Richie one, which was our pilot episode, and that's a rough episode,

[33:33] by the way, folks, if you go back to Steve Richie two or our highest rated episode, Steve

[33:38] Richie three, you will hear about all the firsts

[33:42] that Steve Richie did in pinball.

[33:44] The King of firsts, the King of flow.

[33:47] Well, you know, Dennis Norman will not be outdone.

[33:50] So party animals was the first game with belching, and the first game with a flushing toilet.

[33:56] I love it.

[33:58] Congratulations, Dennis, Norman.

[34:00] You did it.

[34:01] Toilets are great in pinball.

[34:02] They've been on a lot of really good games.

[34:04] You did it, Dennis, Norman.

[34:06] Take that, Steve Richie.

[34:07] And there were two translates for party animal.

[34:09] There was a bar version and a home version.

[34:13] The bar version had the characters with beer stones and they're hanging out on the back

[34:18] glass.

[34:19] The other one was more of a dad's root beer back glass, which was kind of more of a family

[34:23] center or at home version.

[34:26] Yeah, which is interesting in 1987, they would even consider home sales or that it would

[34:31] be in a home.

[34:32] Yeah, that's odd that they would do that.

[34:34] The back glass is fun party animal.

[34:37] It is very fun.

[34:38] Yeah.

[34:39] And animals out partying.

[34:40] The party trilogy is all about fun and goofiness.

[34:44] And yeah, over the top silly.

[34:46] Yeah.

[34:47] Right.

[34:48] The little details in the back glass are fantastic.

[34:51] All of that certainly has to come from kind of the quirkiness of Pat McMahon on all of

[34:58] his games.

[34:59] Kind of was a bit quirky, but you could tell that he could have a little bit of fun with

[35:02] this and he went all in.

[35:04] What does the flyer say for this one?

[35:05] It's party animal.

[35:07] This party get the good times role in this summer with Bally Midway's new party animal

[35:13] pinball and it also contains licensed music.

[35:16] Really?

[35:17] Oh yeah, it's got like, like, I think Louis, Louis in it.

[35:20] It's got, I wonder if the flyer says what it's at least four or five songs.

[35:24] When did animal house come out?

[35:27] Oh God, 1978.

[35:28] Oh, okay.

[35:29] So then they're not trying to piggyback on that, but I might have had some influence.

[35:33] I do like on their flyer.

[35:34] This is limited quantity, limited quantities available at now before the party's over.

[35:38] And then it says for a good time call and it's got the phone number.

[35:42] Wow.

[35:43] Many jukebox.

[35:44] Oh, okay.

[35:45] I said five.

[35:46] It's eight.

[35:47] It plays eight well-known party anthems.

[35:49] Not just songs, they're anthems.

[35:51] Yes.

[35:52] Well, this game was at a tournament I was playing at and that's all I kept hearing.

[35:56] I didn't realize it actually played licensed music.

[35:59] I'm like, is that Louis, Louis?

[36:00] It's like, yeah, it is.

[36:01] And then it would play another like wipe out or so.

[36:03] I don't remember all the, but all well-known songs spell pig out and really get the party

[36:09] going.

[36:10] Players change tunes by hitting the jukebox targets.

[36:13] Multiple wild party sound effects.

[36:15] I don't know what that would be.

[36:17] Shooter lane door price gets players started.

[36:20] You know, it incorporates all the latest pinball engineering advancements.

[36:23] Yes.

[36:24] Like like paper mache cabinets and a horrible keypad.

[36:27] But it has cool wraps.

[36:29] It is a wild ride nonetheless.

[36:31] Let's just say that in line dropped targets as per Valley law, a cool jukebox.

[36:37] The jukebox toy is very neat.

[36:40] It sits kind of in the middle in the back.

[36:42] It's got three standups in front of it, but it's, it's vacuum sealed.

[36:46] So it looks really cool.

[36:48] Very well done to it.

[36:49] It's not just a standup piece of plastic, which is cool.

[36:52] It has two side ramps.

[36:54] So the ramps aren't sort of front to back.

[36:57] This is Nordman's second major design.

[37:01] You know, he's worked with Pat let a few people, but this would be a serious no no nowadays,

[37:07] where there's no ramps kind of from the flipper straight forward.

[37:11] There's two to the right.

[37:13] And I don't know if that would get through designs nowadays.

[37:17] I think people would crap all over.

[37:19] Yeah.

[37:20] I think we need to have a more open mind and try different things.

[37:23] But that's just me.

[37:25] Let's talk about this this flipper up here.

[37:27] This third flipper to those side ramps.

[37:29] Is there anything that you look that when you look at that, you're like, huh?

[37:32] That looks familiar.

[37:33] Uh, well, looks familiar to a lot of games.

[37:36] Well, this flipper, I think, looks a lot like the flipper that's in Avengers.

[37:43] It kind of sits up around the orbit.

[37:45] It floats in the middle of the play field.

[37:47] There's no there's no post in front of it.

[37:50] It is part of the design, which is kind of cool.

[37:53] Avengers are Godzilla Avengers, because it's not like you can't shoot around it.

[37:59] You know, when you're shooting up to that Avengers tower and then on the left side is the

[38:03] Hulk shot.

[38:04] It's kind of, it's not positioned in exactly the same place.

[38:07] But you can see that you can't just, you can't do something that hasn't been done before

[38:11] in pinball.

[38:12] And I think about ballies of this era, they really try to create an atmosphere like everything.

[38:18] There's even an art on the apron that matches the theme, tons of plastic.

[38:24] The cheapest thing is probably to do the art.

[38:26] You got your in-house art team.

[38:27] Let them go to town.

[38:29] This is probably Pat, one of Pat McMan's best, because he really had a lot of fun, I think,

[38:34] with this, because he could kind of do whatever he wanted with, I would say a lot of freedom.

[38:40] I'm looking at a koala bear.

[38:41] I believe that's a koala bear.

[38:42] And he's saying, could I, mate?

[38:43] Of course he is.

[38:44] It's, it looks like a lot of fun.

[38:46] I haven't played one.

[38:47] I know, I know somebody in my area that has one, but I've never, I've never played one.

[38:52] I know a certain host of a podcast that really needs to go to some shows and play some games.

[38:57] It's bad.

[38:58] Yeah, I'm thinking I'm going to get to Pintastic actually speaking of that.

[39:01] I mean, for our listeners, how many times have you heard Dave, like, oh, I haven't played

[39:04] that.

[39:05] I haven't played that.

[39:06] I haven't played that.

[39:07] But I'll tell you what, I have played some of the weirdest random stuff, though.

[39:11] So take that.

[39:12] Okay.

[39:14] Let's jump into a really fun one here.

[39:17] This is Blackwater 100.

[39:18] Yes.

[39:19] Blackwater 100.

[39:21] It's a motocross theme from March of 88.

[39:23] It's a 6803.

[39:25] It sells 3,000 units.

[39:26] It's his largest seller to date.

[39:28] Now in this era, kind of selling 3,000 units in, you know, is pretty good considering that

[39:35] you're not, you know, Williams.

[39:37] We're getting into kind of the upward swing, if you will, now in the late 80s.

[39:42] This is the art by Tony Ramuni, sound by Neil Faulkner, Dennis Nordman and Greg Ferris.

[39:48] That's interesting.

[39:49] They're doing the sounds.

[39:50] And we'll get into that in a minute.

[39:51] Gary Oglesby on software.

[39:54] The license for Blackwater 100.

[39:56] Oh, yeah, I forgot.

[39:57] It's actually a license theme, technically.

[39:59] It's not just motocross.

[40:02] And we just called it Blackwater 100.

[40:05] The Blackwater 100 is a motocross ATV race.

[40:09] It was held in Davis, West Virginia.

[40:12] And it was known for having a bunch of water crossing sections near Route 93.

[40:19] The uniqueness of this event were that people would get super close to the action in all

[40:25] of these water areas.

[40:27] And they were actually flipping around and splashing around and having a good time while these

[40:32] motocross bikes were going by in a dangerous fashion.

[40:37] They were called mud flees.

[40:39] They were unsafe.

[40:40] If you want to think good old boys, this is basically a good old boys kind of event.

[40:45] I've been to events like this in my area and they are a lot of fun.

[40:51] There's a lot of beer coolers, a lot of smoking.

[40:54] I'll include the video, YouTube video about the Blackwater 100.

[40:58] In fact, when these ATV and motocross guys get stuck in the mud, a lot of the people

[41:06] who are on the sidelines actually help them get out.

[41:09] Dennis drove to the Blackwater 100 in Virginia when he was living in Ohio.

[41:14] Dennis is a large motocross fan, drives his own motocross bike.

[41:20] Unfortunately, the event was canceled in 1993.

[41:24] And I'm assuming probably due to safety or the quality of the family environment.

[41:34] Is this seem like an entertaining weekend for Ron Hallett?

[41:37] Not something I'd probably go to.

[41:42] But remember, I don't like people.

[41:45] Dennis and Greg were on sound.

[41:47] What's up with that?

[41:48] I know Greg forever, so it ended up doing a lot of speech calls and games in the future.

[41:53] They did.

[41:54] They also, the two of them actually took some recording equipment to the Blackwater 100

[41:59] motocross event and they would record a lot of those sounds.

[42:04] Dennis would also bring his motocross bike to the Bali office.

[42:09] He would drive around and they would record that sound to use in the machine.

[42:16] So those machines are not sort of synthetic created noises of motocross bikes.

[42:22] Those are actually noises of Dennis Nordman driving around.

[42:27] This is also another great first in pinball, but an actual like first this time, eight

[42:34] Ron, a buy and feature.

[42:37] The worst, the worst.

[42:40] What's a buy and feature when your game's over, you can buy in for more money.

[42:45] Usually you can play like another ball, keep that train running.

[42:49] Those are really popular in those Bali Williams wide bodies.

[42:53] That with the buy in was a big deal during that time.

[42:56] The Blackwater 100, an X, a buy in can buy in anywhere from one to three extra heats,

[43:01] depending on an operator setting.

[43:03] The player's 15 seconds after heat three to press the start button to continue pressing

[43:07] either green button cancels the buy in.

[43:09] It has some unique code as well in this game.

[43:13] Typically in pinball, you get one ball until it drains and you do that three times.

[43:20] Blackwater 100 gives you three heats of at least three balls each.

[43:26] For each heat, three balls must be loaded into the starting gate.

[43:31] At which point you start the countdown and that begins.

[43:35] Have you ever played Blackwater 100?

[43:37] I have not.

[43:38] So you plunge three balls to the gate and it's like the starting line and then it does

[43:45] a countdown and what they don't tell you and you just have to know this.

[43:49] There's actually like a skill shot kind of.

[43:53] There's like you hit, I can't remember is the flipper button or one of the other buttons.

[43:56] It'll count out like three, two, one, start and the closer you hit the button to when it

[44:00] starts, the more points you get.

[44:03] It's like a skill shot.

[44:04] When you look at Blackwater 100, it is a lot going on.

[44:11] It has the most plastic I think that has ever been in a game.

[44:15] Nothing compares to this.

[44:17] It's super impressive.

[44:18] It is super impressive.

[44:19] It also has arrows and yellow bits at the back of the playfield and the front of the

[44:24] playfield, which I think are the rules, which you had mentioned a moment ago are a bit

[44:29] confusing.

[44:30] It also has the only instance of the phrase sucking I've ever seen in a game.

[44:36] There you go.

[44:37] Another first for Dennis Norton.

[44:38] It literally says sucking on the playfield, but it has a shot where the ball actually is

[44:44] on a ramp.

[44:45] It's on plastic on the freaking apron, like behind your flippers.

[44:50] Have any other machines before this had so much on the apron?

[44:57] No.

[44:58] Like this is the apron itself.

[45:00] So it could be on that by challenging you to correct me on this one.

[45:04] So this is like they call it the arch or the apron, the part at the bottom where the ball

[45:10] kind of drains between the flippers and then goes down into the, you know, the trough

[45:14] down.

[45:15] And basically, yeah, the metal or plastic part that covers all the stuff so you can't see

[45:19] it in the ball drains.

[45:21] This thing, what it's done is it's taken that basically unused real estate and actually

[45:28] put playfield elements on it, like actual things to do.

[45:35] It's almost like it has a flipper down here.

[45:37] It has a flipper on it, yes.

[45:39] You can shoot around it through a gate.

[45:43] It'll drop the ball into the in lanes on the left and right side.

[45:49] It has multiplier lights.

[45:52] Like it's almost like a game in itself.

[45:56] Check that out on an IPDB.

[45:57] It's really, really interesting.

[45:59] I don't know if it's any good, but it's interesting.

[46:02] It's all right.

[46:03] The other thing that strikes me about this pin is all of the vacuum formed ramps.

[46:10] So the ramps themselves are not like just a ramp.

[46:15] Like it's all part of the pinball machine itself and it's creating a world under glass

[46:24] where it looks like mountains and mud pits where motor cross bikes are driving around

[46:33] them.

[46:34] They're all painted in quite a bit of detail.

[46:37] Oh, yeah.

[46:38] It's not just a clearer ramp.

[46:41] It's like blue, gray, brown colors.

[46:44] Yeah.

[46:45] If you want to talk about theme integration, this is something else.

[46:48] I'll have to look further in your notes, but I thought this was the last ballie before

[46:52] Williams bought them.

[46:54] So this was a heck of way to go out.

[46:55] It was really cool.

[46:57] This era, and we'll bring this up maybe in another episode.

[47:01] This is where ballie was trying to be very different than everybody else.

[47:07] They figured they couldn't compete on things like code or build quality with Williams.

[47:13] So what do you do?

[47:14] You try to do something that's completely different.

[47:17] And I will say as much as we put Pupu, the 6803 with the cabinet and the number pad, the

[47:23] one thing the 6803 could do, it could drive more lights than the other systems, the other

[47:28] manufacturer systems.

[47:30] So they would have a lot of computer controlled lights on the game.

[47:34] Tons of them.

[47:35] It was very pretty.

[47:36] Around this time, Balli Midway would also bring in a Dan Langley.

[47:40] He's most known for doing like black belt, heavy metal meltdown, a few games.

[47:45] And they were really off the wall when it came to design, flippers in all directions.

[47:52] It was very weird.

[47:54] Dennis Nordman is sort of of that same class.

[47:56] They tried to do things that were completely different to invigorate and stand out amongst

[48:03] the got leaves and the Williams of the time.

[48:08] All right.

[48:09] Looking at the flyer, mud, sweat and tears.

[48:14] Balli puts you out front.

[48:17] Balli puts you out in front with black water.

[48:20] 100.

[48:21] Don't get left behind.

[48:23] Get black water 100 to your collection and watch your earnings accelerate.

[48:27] Brand new price per place strategy.

[48:30] Wonder what that meant.

[48:31] Wonder if that was a 50 center.

[48:33] Maybe.

[48:34] There's a great photo in the back here.

[48:36] Two guys running through the mud.

[48:38] And one guy is in front end of his face.

[48:41] His front end, his wheel on the front end is buried in this black and white photo and

[48:48] he is falling flat on his face.

[48:50] Thank God he's got a helmet though.

[48:51] You know motorcycles and pinball really seem to get along if you go back to evil, can

[48:56] evil, you get no fear, black water 100, Harley Davidson.

[48:59] You know it's the world's toughest race.

[49:02] It's not just about laughs around a track.

[49:03] It's about a grueling course that takes the rider through swamps, rivers, mud and more.

[49:09] Get ready for the ride of your life.

[49:11] And all those things around the art by the way.

[49:13] Everyone with red, yellow, green go.

[49:16] With the motocross style start, you get triple the action.

[49:19] Three balls rev up at the player activated start gate to authentic dirt bike sounds.

[49:25] Feel the excitement of multi level play field depicts actual race environment, hair raising

[49:30] turns, treacherous rocks plus special test feature shot with fifth flipper challenge.

[49:36] I take it as the flipper on the apron.

[49:38] That's the weird one on the apron.

[49:40] It's your special test.

[49:42] Mm hmm.

[49:43] Yeah, it's got like a raised upper play field kind of thing in the back with two flippers.

[49:48] If they made this today, the budget would be like $20,000.

[49:51] This thing is this it's cool.

[49:53] I don't know how it plays.

[49:55] I'm sure it plays fine.

[49:56] It plays five probably got a bit of it.

[49:58] Yeah, it's got a bit of clunk.

[49:59] I'm sure the other issue.

[50:00] It's got the bali flippers of the time, which are not the greatest.

[50:04] Yeah, there are a bit, um, sluggy squishy squishy.

[50:08] Yeah, that's yeah, they're not snappy.

[50:11] Let's put it that way.

[50:12] Yeah, we've we've been spoiled by the engineering at Stern.

[50:15] I think recently with their quality of flippers that it's kind of ruined everything else.

[50:20] It's very cool.

[50:21] I think this got a lot of attention when it was launched at, uh, in 1988.

[50:30] Would you own one, Ron?

[50:31] Is this, uh, is this a 6803 that would be in your basement?

[50:34] No.

[50:35] There's only one 6803 that would be in my basement.

[50:37] Can you guess what it would be?

[50:39] Oh.

[50:40] Mm hmm.

[50:41] Eight ball champs.

[50:43] She was.

[50:44] Oh, of course.

[50:45] Yeah.

[50:47] Great.

[50:47] I heard on that one too.

[50:48] Wait a minute.

[50:49] Your notes say it's the last Valley Midway game.

[50:52] It does.

[50:52] It's this Valley Midway was then sold to Williams to become Williams.

[51:00] Valley Midway.

[51:01] But most people just sort of call it Valley Williams.

[51:04] So for the transition to Williams, Dennis says, when we came into work one morning,

[51:09] I wasn't there.

[51:10] My wife said, we've been sold to Williams.

[51:13] Some of you will be let go.

[51:15] So that was kind of a nerve wracking time.

[51:17] And if you're wondering why his wife said we've been sold to Williams,

[51:19] his wife was actually a secretary at Valley.

[51:22] Yes.

[51:23] They both had met at Valley.

[51:25] The Valley designers really struggled for a while in this new model.

[51:32] There was a lot of competition between the Valley designers and the Williams

[51:35] designers.

[51:36] There was like battle lines were drawn.

[51:38] In fact, they had a lot of trouble even getting stuff done in the model shop

[51:43] or getting prototypes done in the prototype shop.

[51:48] Eventually, they realized that the Valley designers could do a great job.

[51:52] And eventually the pressure stopped with the silly competition that would happen.

[51:58] That doesn't sound like a whole lot of fun run.

[51:59] Now, because the Valley guys were kind of the outsiders, they got bought by Williams.

[52:03] So they were the number two thing had to prove themselves.

[52:06] That's why a lot of them know like when they would have the games,

[52:09] it would be under the Valley logo instead of the Williams logo.

[52:13] Like a lot of the Valley guys.

[52:14] Yeah, the Williams guys didn't want them to have that logo name, right?

[52:18] So they'd play these little games back.

[52:20] Like Steve Richie would not do a ballet.

[52:23] Like when they when they took him over, if you look, every Steve Richie game

[52:26] is a Williams game for that era, little, little trivia there.

[52:31] Unlike some of the other designers would who would do like, obviously Pat Waller did

[52:34] ballet games, he did Williams games.

[52:36] I mean, it's the same company.

[52:38] Dennis Norman's breakout hit was the first release that he had at the new Valley Williams.

[52:44] That was El Vira and the party monsters.

[52:47] This is from September of 1989.

[52:52] It sells 4,000 units.

[52:55] So his biggest seller yet, the design by Dennis Norman and his mentor Jim Patla,

[53:01] Art by Greg Ferris, sound and music by the legend Chris Granner and software by Mark Penaccio.

[53:10] This is a license theme.

[53:12] It is El Vira.

[53:14] Cassandra Peterson is an American actress, writer and singer.

[53:18] She's best known for portraying the horror hostess El Vira, mistress of the dark.

[53:27] She gained a lot of fame in Los Angeles on a television station, K H J TV,

[53:34] wearing a revealing black gothic cleavage enhancing gown.

[53:38] She would host El Vira's movie macabre, which was a weekly B movie presentation,

[53:45] yeah, where they would sort of mock the show in between commercial.

[53:49] Yeah, so bad movie.

[53:51] And then she during breaks in the movie would come on and make comments.

[53:55] This seems right up your alley.

[53:57] My alley?

[53:58] Well, B movies are always in my alley.

[53:59] Yes.

[54:00] Were you aware of El Vira?

[54:02] I was, yeah, I was aware of El Vira.

[54:04] I don't, I never, I saw some clips of the show, but more, I was more aware of her being

[54:10] El Vira.

[54:11] She's famous for being El Vira.

[54:13] I, I was not particularly aware of who El Vira was because I'm, I'm a younger,

[54:20] I'm a generation younger than you.

[54:22] But for some reason, I always kind of, I, she was always on the periphery of something.

[54:26] For some reason, I, I kind of knew who she was, although I didn't know the details of who,

[54:31] I was like, oh, that's El Vira, but I didn't know why it mattered.

[54:34] I didn't know who, what, I didn't know what she did.

[54:36] I just sort of knew that for some reason.

[54:38] And I think it's because she was like very high in pop culture, like on T shirts in,

[54:43] in stores sometimes or you'd see her in like a random silly thing.

[54:49] This was Williams first licensed theme in a long while, and it was Roger Sharpe's idea.

[54:56] None of the Williams team were interested in touching the El Vira licensed.

[55:02] They all had other projects on the go at the time.

[55:05] Roger would bring this up to the ballet team and Dennis jumped on the opportunity.

[55:12] Working with somebody like a Cassandra Peterson must have been pretty daunting, right?

[55:16] Like working with a movie star or a television star seems like it might be difficult.

[55:21] Well, according to Gris Granner, it wasn't.

[55:23] He said she is an exception to the rule.

[55:25] She was super flexible, super easy as long as it was fun and had plenty of room for that

[55:30] double and Tondre humor and is everything about El Vira.

[55:34] As long as we presented to her and our designers, a platform for all that to come out in flower,

[55:39] she saw very quickly what we were after.

[55:41] She was our partner.

[55:42] She was one of our beloved licensed partners.

[55:45] She was all in.

[55:47] Did you know that Steve Richie worked on El Vira and the party monsters?

[55:52] Yes, I did.

[55:53] Now it's time for story time with Ron.

[55:55] Yes, Dennis Durbin had written any dirt bikes since college.

[55:59] He found out that Steve and Mark Richie had bikes and they went down to a riding area in Southern Illinois.

[56:04] Dennis says, so we were riding and we came out of the woods onto this nice little dirt road.

[56:10] And there was about four of us.

[56:12] I was showing off and I blew past Mark.

[56:14] I was concentrating on Mark and not the road.

[56:16] The road made a sharp right turn.

[56:18] I hit some rough stuff off to the side of the road and flew over the bars and all I could remember is a loud noise.

[56:23] I could remember just kind of laying there on my side and look down to my left leg.

[56:27] My femur was bent in a V shape and I thought, oh man, I really screwed up now.

[56:34] You ever break a bone, Ron?

[56:35] Not yet.

[56:36] Oh, actually, no, actually, yeah, I did.

[56:38] I broke my little finger.

[56:40] That's not this.

[56:41] No, I didn't have bones protruding out of my, yeah.

[56:44] Yeah.

[56:45] Just thinking about that.

[56:47] Dennis would spend three months in hospital and he was just about to finish up the Elvira white wood.

[56:54] So during the three months, three months, the Dennis was in hospital.

[56:58] Steve Richie, Mark Richie and Jim Patler would refine a few items and help the game through production.

[57:05] Now, if you look at the art on the back glass,

[57:09] there are several broken bones on the barbecue.

[57:12] Those are representative of the broken femur that Dennis had.

[57:18] Ouch.

[57:19] How much?

[57:20] This has to have a classic flyer.

[57:22] Like, come on, it's got to monster.

[57:24] Is pinball.

[57:25] You're going to have a ball, a virus in the party monsters.

[57:29] This has a four page flyer.

[57:31] This is they wanted to make sure that they were able to get Elvira on this flyer as much as they did.

[57:37] They definitely did.

[57:39] When they named a game after me, it had to be built.

[57:43] Tons of double entendres in this game.

[57:45] I told the boys that Bally's Elvira had to be good and it is players can't keep their hands off my new game.

[57:51] Everywhere you look, big, beautiful features, big for attention.

[57:55] Pinball has never been so good or so satisfying.

[57:58] Believe me, everybody scores big with a fire in the party monsters.

[58:02] The profits and the action begin with my name.

[58:05] Oh, my.

[58:06] There's a lot to read on this flyer.

[58:08] It is basically, it is exactly the same thing that you just read over and over again with a lot of like, oh, oh my.

[58:16] Right?

[58:16] Yes, this is Elvira's no cheap date because they went from a quarter to 50 cents on this game.

[58:20] Players will pay to play with me.

[58:22] It takes more than a quarter to turn me on.

[58:25] One chance to party with yours cruelly costs 50 cents and nobody argues.

[58:29] Players that come back for more get a deal.

[58:31] Two rounds with me cost 75 cents and players who really have stamina can play three for a dollar.

[58:37] Oh, oh my.

[58:40] Yeah, so that's the flyer.

[58:42] That's where I'm not.

[58:43] We can't read anymore of these.

[58:44] We might get in trouble.

[58:45] Nope.

[58:45] Yeah, this, oh my.

[58:49] I guess we'll talk about the art here.

[58:51] Let's talk about the art.

[58:53] Let's go to the, let's go to these pictures of the of the the backlash and stuff here.

[58:59] So we can focus.

[59:01] Oh my.

[59:01] Okay.

[59:02] Um, whoo.

[59:05] All right.

[59:05] So we had mentioned in the last episode about Smarky.

[59:09] Smarky being Elvira or Cassandra Peterson's husband written on the barbecue tongs that she has on the barbecue.

[59:20] She actually has I love Smarky on it.

[59:23] Smarky would actually pass away not a couple of years ago.

[59:27] So she's, um, she, you can see that those bits and pieces of their love through all three of her games.

[59:35] Now she's on a barbecue on the backlash.

[59:37] She's barbecuing Dennis Nordman is right over her shoulder.

[59:40] Yes.

[59:40] Dennis Nordman is the werewolf because he's got that, that sort of famous Dennis Nordman beard.

[59:46] The Dennis Dennis has a fantastic beard.

[59:48] He does.

[59:49] You're Italian.

[59:49] You probably have a great beard.

[59:50] I can.

[59:51] I get, I get beard envy.

[59:53] I got this.

[59:53] My, my ancestors, British, uh, clean, shaven gentleman.

[59:58] So I, I don't, I don't have the heritage that somebody of your ilk would have with a fantastic beard.

[01:00:05] So I get beard envy sometimes.

[01:00:07] I believe Jim Patlas Dracula, because that looks like Jim Patla to me.

[01:00:10] Yeah.

[01:00:10] They all have sort of a stylized version.

[01:00:13] It's, it's a fun backlash.

[01:00:16] There's, there's lots of hidden little little bits and pieces that Greg Ferris has put into this backlash.

[01:00:21] Little things written on, uh, on, on, you know, Norman's broken ribs on the barbecue, for example,

[01:00:30] uh, Jim's frog legs on the barbecue there in the background.

[01:00:35] You've got the gravestone, uh, pizza, dig it.

[01:00:38] Like there's lots of things in there that you can really kind of pull out.

[01:00:42] It's a very fun, interesting backlash.

[01:00:46] Definitely a Greg Ferris artistic.

[01:00:50] Oh, yes.

[01:00:51] The play field on the other hand, I'm not a big fan of the, the art on the play field.

[01:00:56] It's fine.

[01:00:57] It's, it's fine, but it just, I don't know, it's the too many colors, maybe too much Elvira.

[01:01:02] She's on there like a ton.

[01:01:04] There's at the bottom, the, the, the play again, um, you know, shoot again thing is almost like, uh, what is it called?

[01:01:13] Like a, like a, like a magical, like a, yeah, like a crystal ball.

[01:01:18] Uh, it has the multipliers.

[01:01:19] It's got Elvira.

[01:01:20] You go up a little further.

[01:01:21] It's very fanny layout.

[01:01:23] All the shots are left to right.

[01:01:25] Big long plastic ramp.

[01:01:27] This ramp is interesting because it does this, um, kind of in the middle of the ramp that returns to the right side.

[01:01:35] It zigs and it zags and then it comes down and it almost looks like a water slide with a dead guy on it, which is,

[01:01:43] which is, you know, it just bleed theme, you know, sorry, but the pun there.

[01:01:47] And then it goes down and then back up.

[01:01:50] So the ball does like it and that'll become a really, you know, he did that in black water or 100, but it'll, it'll really become a staple of the ramp design that

[01:01:59] Deadest Nordman does is he loves to have ramps that go to a deep, a steep downward and then a back up.

[01:02:06] It's not just straight.

[01:02:07] It's kind of, kind of fun.

[01:02:09] One of the mechs that really stands out is, is in the center of the play field where you shoot it and it rotates.

[01:02:17] What the heck is that called?

[01:02:19] It rotates.

[01:02:20] Yeah, this little thing.

[01:02:21] What is this called?

[01:02:22] I thought they were just targets.

[01:02:23] Yeah, they're targets, but doesn't it, doesn't it move at the top?

[01:02:27] Maybe it doesn't.

[01:02:28] I know it, this had the deal where it's got a skull where you lock balls and, and it's eyes are green, but they originally supposed to be red.

[01:02:39] And there was a whole story behind that.

[01:02:41] It was something like in the, in the south or something, the red just wasn't like you couldn't do the red.

[01:02:47] So they made it green.

[01:02:49] There was some bizarre reason.

[01:02:50] What, like, when it comes to gameplay, I have played a lot of this game.

[01:02:53] This is a fun little game.

[01:02:55] It's like a, it's like a bridge between kind of that system 11 and WPC.

[01:03:01] It's got like a little bit of extra layer of rules.

[01:03:04] It's got some fun speech.

[01:03:05] Lots of flasters.

[01:03:06] It's like, yeah, it's really kind of elevating the game.

[01:03:10] So they've moved from the 6803 board set.

[01:03:14] They've moved into system 11.

[01:03:16] Because that's what Williams was using when they got taken over.

[01:03:19] Yeah.

[01:03:19] So now they're able to sort of get another layer of exciting kind of different.

[01:03:26] And you can really see the difference between, okay, the original 6803 and what the, the leadership at Williams

[01:03:34] would allow them to do where they couldn't do it.

[01:03:36] Maybe so much on the ballacess.

[01:03:38] The flipers are way better.

[01:03:40] That's for sure way better.

[01:03:42] Now the competition would continue now.

[01:03:44] They were able to do their prototypes and stuff in the lab and they were given a little more

[01:03:49] leeway, but there was still a lot of competition.

[01:03:53] Some of that competition came down to when your machine was released.

[01:03:57] And there are sometimes I think you don't want a pin to be released.

[01:04:01] One of those times is probably around a Steve Richie game.

[01:04:05] The other one is you don't want your game released somewhere around a pat

[01:04:11] Loller game, weren't Pemberton.

[01:04:13] You'll know him, of course, from Fathom and one of my favorites, Mousin, around

[01:04:19] and Gilligan's Island.

[01:04:20] Elvira in the party monsters released, well, Elvira in the party monsters released

[01:04:25] just before whirlwind the same time within a few months of each other.

[01:04:29] There was intense competition.

[01:04:31] Can you imagine that you're kind of positioning your game and you want to do it

[01:04:36] and you're getting your best seller of 4,000 units with Elvira?

[01:04:39] You got a license.

[01:04:40] It's got this teenager inducing double on Tondra stuff.

[01:04:45] And then swinging in right behind you is Pat Loller's world win, which is

[01:04:50] probably what the best system 11.

[01:04:52] And the funny thing is in today's market, that would be seen as the opposite.

[01:04:55] Like Elvira is the license whirlwind would probably sell nothing because they had

[01:04:58] a license.

[01:04:59] Yeah.

[01:04:59] How true is that?

[01:05:01] So the competition continues.

[01:05:03] We're going to go into Dr.

[01:05:04] Dude and his excellent Ray.

[01:05:07] This is a malpractice party.

[01:05:09] Help practice party.

[01:05:11] August of 1990, it is a system 11.

[01:05:14] It sells three thousand nine eighty three Dennis Nordman on the design art by Greg

[01:05:19] Ferris again.

[01:05:21] Chris Granar on Sound and music.

[01:05:23] Bill Futzenrooter on software always say his name right.

[01:05:27] But you can't say some of the easier ones right.

[01:05:28] It's crazy.

[01:05:29] I don't know what that is.

[01:05:32] This was the last system 11.

[01:05:35] And it is also the second in the party trilogy.

[01:05:39] Yeah.

[01:05:40] And actually the very end of the run, the Dr.

[01:05:43] Dudes, there are WPC Dr.

[01:05:45] Dudes at the end of the run.

[01:05:47] This is Dennis Nordman's first game released at the new Valley Williams.

[01:05:51] But he had been working on this game prior to Elvira when he

[01:05:56] was at Midway before the purchase.

[01:05:59] They still hadn't sorted out some of the names just yet with the whole

[01:06:04] Valley midway Williams thing.

[01:06:06] But eventually they would release it.

[01:06:09] This game, Ron was going to be teenage mutant Ninja Turtles.

[01:06:13] The spinning disc was going to be a bad guy machine to destroy.

[01:06:21] Interesting.

[01:06:21] Management thought that teenage mutant Ninja Turtles was too

[01:06:25] childish and they did not pursue the license any fail.

[01:06:30] That was a bad idea.

[01:06:32] It sells a three thousand nine hundred and eighty three units.

[01:06:36] If it had been Ninja Turtles, they probably would have sold more right.

[01:06:39] I think you were sold more.

[01:06:40] Well, somebody did pick up the teenage mutant Ninja Turtles license.

[01:06:44] Yeah, because they picked up every license.

[01:06:46] And how many units do you think they saw?

[01:06:49] I don't know how many do you think they sold more because they had the license?

[01:06:53] And 19.

[01:06:55] Yeah, that's a, that's a.

[01:06:57] No, they sold less.

[01:07:00] They sold three thousand seven hundred and fifty units.

[01:07:02] So, so what do I know?

[01:07:05] If you want Ron to consult with you on licensing, so send us an email.

[01:07:09] It's still for ball chronicles at gmail.com.

[01:07:11] But I'm, I'm actually quite surprised at that.

[01:07:14] I don't know if that has to do with the fact that it's data East versus a

[01:07:19] Valley Williams thing where Valley Williams tend to sell more machines anyway.

[01:07:23] That's true.

[01:07:24] I do think though if Valley Williams had done teenage mutant Ninja Turtles,

[01:07:28] they would have sold another thousand units for sure.

[01:07:31] This theme was Greg Ferraris's idea.

[01:07:34] Greg says, Dr. Dude was me fulfilling my mad magazine fantasy.

[01:07:39] We wrote the script and had lots of fun.

[01:07:41] Get all bad magazine.

[01:07:42] We had spoke before about Greg's love for art in general.

[01:07:48] You can go back to our Valley art episode.

[01:07:51] There's two of them there called moving units.

[01:07:55] In there, it spoke, we spoke about Greg Ferraris and how he would

[01:08:01] often model and use Polaroid pictures to be able to make sure that he got the

[01:08:06] perspective correct on all of his photos.

[01:08:08] Well, Doug Watson actually modeled for Dr.

[01:08:13] Dude's hand on the back glass, kind of the way he's positioned.

[01:08:18] Kind of he's holding the the stick.

[01:08:22] It's a tongue depressor.

[01:08:24] Yeah, that's a very fancy way.

[01:08:25] The stick is probably not the best way to sell that.

[01:08:28] This is very comic bookie, very over the top.

[01:08:32] Oh, yeah, it might have the most text of any back glass ever.

[01:08:36] There's a whole story going on on the back.

[01:08:39] They didn't just make a flyer like fathom, no, a comic.

[01:08:42] The whole story is there basically this guy's a, he's a nerd.

[01:08:46] He's geek.

[01:08:47] Then he, what does he do?

[01:08:48] He experiments on himself.

[01:08:49] He makes this the excellent ray gets hit with the excellent ray.

[01:08:52] He becomes Dr. Dude, the coolest doctor around the whole nerd culture is very

[01:08:59] different nowadays than it certainly was in the 1980s.

[01:09:02] It's it's like not a bad thing to be a nerdy anymore.

[01:09:06] Yeah, being a nerd now is cool.

[01:09:09] In 1990, it was not cool.

[01:09:10] It was like the worst possible thing that you could be.

[01:09:13] And I find that kind of funny.

[01:09:16] Right?

[01:09:16] Because now it's like pretty much everybody's playing video games in one way or another

[01:09:21] or board games or whatever.

[01:09:23] But that was like the weird thing to do back then.

[01:09:25] Yeah, your comic book movies make billions of dollars.

[01:09:28] Yeah, you wanted to be the cool guy.

[01:09:31] You didn't want to be the nerd.

[01:09:32] And this is an exact, a perfect example of that culture personified.

[01:09:37] The doctors is get hit, earn respect, be the envy of your friends.

[01:09:41] That's sad.

[01:09:43] That's actually really sad.

[01:09:44] Only Dr. Dude has all the right ingredients for success.

[01:09:48] I should talk because he kind of talks like a like a bro surf or guy and they

[01:09:53] do it.

[01:09:53] You got to do the bro.

[01:09:54] Start again and do it with the bro.

[01:09:55] Only Dr. Dude has all the right ingredients for success with the multiple value rewards

[01:10:00] of the bago tricks, grand champion high score today.

[01:10:04] Reflex targets in one million point.

[01:10:06] Reflex one, two, three sequences.

[01:10:09] You get that dude.

[01:10:10] Roar.

[01:10:11] Whoa.

[01:10:12] That's excellent.

[01:10:13] Players will quickly discover the excitement of gaining a heart of rock and roll,

[01:10:17] magnetic personality and gift of gab.

[01:10:21] Then take a spin in the molecular mixed master to activate the absolute ray.

[01:10:25] Oh, yeah.

[01:10:27] We do that voice all day all day.

[01:10:30] Yeah.

[01:10:31] Love it.

[01:10:31] That's literally what he sounds like in the game.

[01:10:34] Yeah, because that's the way you wanted to sound.

[01:10:36] Yeah.

[01:10:36] You didn't want to sound like Ron.

[01:10:38] No, you're going to need to change.

[01:10:41] I want to be cool, man, scoring punch for profit, power.

[01:10:45] This is a ramp excitement frenzy here.

[01:10:49] We're shooting behind the backboard.

[01:10:52] We got one ramp that lands in the upper play field like it just and dead ends into the upper

[01:10:57] play field with a magnet in the middle of it.

[01:10:59] And then that goes to a habit trail down to the other side if you don't flip.

[01:11:03] You know, only Dr. Dude in his excellent ray will keep players coming back for war with operator

[01:11:08] earnings.

[01:11:09] They're just what the doctor ordered, dude.

[01:11:12] You know, and it's got it's got the excellent of the mixed master, which is basically

[01:11:17] it's just a spinning disc.

[01:11:19] Yeah.

[01:11:19] But you know, from this game on any game that has something similar, most players will just say,

[01:11:25] oh, look, it's a mixed master.

[01:11:27] They actually pulled it off.

[01:11:28] It's kind of fun.

[01:11:29] It's kind of unique.

[01:11:30] It is a goofy, funny game.

[01:11:32] It's funny and fun enough to not be silly.

[01:11:36] Right.

[01:11:37] What's silly?

[01:11:37] What's silly?

[01:11:38] I don't know.

[01:11:39] Once you get too silly, once you get too silly, it gets you're off of the weeds and you

[01:11:43] can't do it.

[01:11:45] But I don't think it's silly.

[01:11:46] I just think it's goofy enough.

[01:11:48] It's technically called a molecular mixed master.

[01:11:51] Now, it's literally just a spinning disc.

[01:11:52] You hit it up there.

[01:11:53] You hit a long, another long plastic ramp.

[01:11:56] You go into the mixed master, which got some, it's got like a, looks like a phone

[01:12:01] handset cord thing plugged into it.

[01:12:03] It's supposed to be like electrified, even though it isn't.

[01:12:06] It's just for look.

[01:12:08] It's science, Ron.

[01:12:09] You got to have, you got to have these little, little curly, I think this is a kind of thing

[01:12:12] that's missing in a lot of newer games.

[01:12:14] If you look at the mixed master, like it has all these cables that obviously are connected

[01:12:17] to anything going to it to make it look like it's, you know, sciencey,

[01:12:22] it's plugged in.

[01:12:22] It's plugged in.

[01:12:23] Like a Metallica originally, his helmet was supposed to have one of these same type

[01:12:27] of cords coming out of it because he was getting electrified, but it was cut.

[01:12:31] If you, if you really want to picture what this mixed master looks like,

[01:12:37] is it's almost like Dennis Nordman reused this in Pirates of the Caribbean with stern?

[01:12:44] It didn't almost reuse it.

[01:12:45] He completely reused it.

[01:12:48] When we first saw the game back when it came out, it's like, oh, the mixed master,

[01:12:51] it made a return.

[01:12:53] Yeah, I can't come up with new ideas, Kenya.

[01:12:56] Hey, if it's a good idea, I say reuse it.

[01:12:57] Yeah, totally.

[01:12:58] It's, it's also very similar to the Tron spinning disc.

[01:13:02] Very cool.

[01:13:03] It's a neat little, neat little toy.

[01:13:05] I think it's those things that set games apart as being unique when they've got

[01:13:10] something that's completely kind of weird and different.

[01:13:16] Hey, penheads.

[01:13:16] When I'm not doing this podcast, I'm Dave, the financial advice guy.

[01:13:21] In a recent survey, we found that 70% of those pulled were concerned about their

[01:13:26] retirement strategy.

[01:13:28] Canadians have a number of concerns when looking out over the next 15 years.

[01:13:33] Professional financial advice is key to helping you through a variety of challenges,

[01:13:37] ranging from inflation, market volatility, and determining how to maximize your

[01:13:43] retirement income in the safest, most effective and tax-efficient way.

[01:13:48] Today's economy requires an experienced hand and a personalized plan.

[01:13:53] Don't take my word for it.

[01:13:54] Just listen to Nordman.

[01:13:56] I am the Nordman and I approve of Dennis Financial's investment and insurance advice.

[01:14:02] Their opinions on vacuum from ramps are great too.

[01:14:05] If you're looking for a more human dimension to your financial advice,

[01:14:09] Dennis Financial Inc has you covered with advisors licensed in most Canadian provinces.

[01:14:14] Contact me, the email at david.

[01:14:17] at DennisFinancial.net for a free rate quote and a copy of our value of advice

[01:14:21] ebook or check out DennisFinancial.ca.

[01:14:25] Insurance solutions provided by Dennis Financial Inc.

[01:14:28] Canadian residents only.

[01:14:30] And like we said, it has like the most text in any game ever in the artwork.

[01:14:34] It's written all over the play field.

[01:14:36] It's like it's it's like a comic book threw up all over the play field.

[01:14:41] One thing that's always broken on this is like the nerdy workout guy next to the

[01:14:46] weird teeth.

[01:14:48] He's not a nerd.

[01:14:50] He's a jock.

[01:14:51] Oh, he's a jock.

[01:14:52] Okay.

[01:14:52] He's a jock.

[01:14:53] Oh, yeah.

[01:14:54] You got the, you got the gift of gab.

[01:14:56] It's one of those, you got to do things in a certain order.

[01:14:58] You got to get your gift of gab.

[01:15:00] You got to get your heart, your heart rock and roll.

[01:15:03] Is that what it's called?

[01:15:04] Did I, did I, I'm thinking of a you, Louis song?

[01:15:07] I think it's called a heart rock and roll.

[01:15:09] You got to do all these different tasks and you got to go up into the mix master.

[01:15:13] You get multi ball.

[01:15:15] You got to go.

[01:15:16] I think into the mix master again.

[01:15:17] And then there's a jackpot shot.

[01:15:19] I'm trying to remember all the different things you got to do.

[01:15:20] But it's, but even the habit trail in it is all curvy and kind of crazy.

[01:15:27] It's not like a straight looking habit trail.

[01:15:30] Yeah, it doesn't just go straight under that.

[01:15:33] And it's not like big, huge sweeping things on the left side.

[01:15:37] It's like it just wiggles really quickly on the left side.

[01:15:39] Just little details like that.

[01:15:41] I appreciate it.

[01:15:42] Dennis Nortonman is developing his style, right?

[01:15:45] He's in five games now.

[01:15:47] He's really sort of developing his style, his fingerprint.

[01:15:51] And it is kind of the fun, not too serious kind of gameplay

[01:15:56] with some wiggles and wobbles on his habit trails and rips.

[01:16:02] He's going to change his style in a few games.

[01:16:04] As you'll see with Dennis, he doesn't all his games are not the same.

[01:16:09] The different different eras.

[01:16:11] Once we get through this, once we get to whitewater, we're going to get into I call the flow era.

[01:16:15] Party Zone was the next game that is a party theme.

[01:16:17] This is the final in the party, quote unquote party trilogy August 91.

[01:16:23] This is a WPC dot matrix game.

[01:16:25] The first dot matrix game that Dennis would do.

[01:16:27] He still sub four thousand in his in his production.

[01:16:31] So he's three thousand eight hundred sixty two units.

[01:16:33] He teams up again with Greg Ferris and Jerry Pinsler.

[01:16:38] This is the only game that he would work on.

[01:16:40] The mechanics were by Zofia Ryan and when shelling and Zofia Ryan over at American pinball

[01:16:46] at the moment, she's best well known as being an awesome engineer at Valley Williams,

[01:16:52] doing things like the time expander in Doctor who a lot of the mechanics on junkyard.

[01:16:57] Sound and music by Dan Fordon, software by Jim Strombles and Mike Boone.

[01:17:02] Now we're getting silly party zone is silly.

[01:17:05] It's very silly. I like it.

[01:17:07] Well, Greg Ferris says Williams was even higher than high in creativity.

[01:17:13] They brought all the art teams together.

[01:17:15] We could do almost anything we wanted working together and working competitively with Dennis.

[01:17:19] We didn't want to be serious.

[01:17:21] We wanted to be fun and have fun.

[01:17:23] Elvira, Dr. Dude and party zone.

[01:17:26] You can see that in the work.

[01:17:27] Yeah.

[01:17:28] If you look at Steve Richie, he was really like testosterone, music, you know, loud fast.

[01:17:37] You look at Pat Lawler.

[01:17:39] He was very whimsical, right?

[01:17:41] He was some sort of amazing toy, fairly child or family friendly.

[01:17:47] And you got Greg Ferris and Dennis Nordman working together.

[01:17:53] And they wanted to be something completely different.

[01:17:55] They just wanted to be fun.

[01:17:59] But unfortunately, we're getting into silly now.

[01:18:02] I like silly.

[01:18:04] According to Greg Ferris, when Star Trek, the next generation happened, Steve Richie came up to him and said,

[01:18:12] Greg Star Trek, are you familiar with it?

[01:18:14] Are you a fan?

[01:18:16] And Greg said, yeah, I'm a fan.

[01:18:18] And Steve said, good, I want to work with you, but I don't want any of that funny stuff on my game.

[01:18:22] Dr. Dude, party zone, none of that funny stuff.

[01:18:26] And Greg said, don't worry, Steve, Star Trek is not very funny.

[01:18:29] There's an example.

[01:18:31] They were known as the fun silly guys by this point.

[01:18:36] That was there.

[01:18:37] That was their niche.

[01:18:38] The thing is, Greg Ferris also did fathom.

[01:18:41] Probably some of the greatest pinball art that has ever been done.

[01:18:45] And none of that was silly or funny.

[01:18:47] Yeah.

[01:18:48] So true.

[01:18:48] That was basically a guy getting like pulled under the water and drowned by mermaids.

[01:18:52] The standout part here in this game is not necessarily something like the molecular mix master.

[01:19:01] Now with party zone, we're getting away from kind of these crazy mechanicals and we're moving into some sculpts.

[01:19:11] Yeah, this has Captain Bazaar.

[01:19:14] And Captain Bazaar is what?

[01:19:17] He's a head.

[01:19:19] He's the guy that talked you through the game.

[01:19:21] He's a head right in the center of the play field.

[01:19:23] It's got like a weird helmet on safety goggles or it's like it.

[01:19:27] He's like a pilot and his mouth moves up and down and he talks to you.

[01:19:32] Plus this also has, if you remember party animals, we had all like, what was it?

[01:19:36] Eight different, eight different songs.

[01:19:39] This has what does it have?

[01:19:40] It's got three or four, but you can select them.

[01:19:43] Pinball Wizards, one of them.

[01:19:45] And then it's got I think chicken dances and other one.

[01:19:48] I'm trying to remember all the different songs.

[01:19:51] Wow, not a fan.

[01:19:52] I was chicken dance man.

[01:19:54] I come.

[01:19:54] I love silly.

[01:19:55] It's got this one of my favorite supersonic, the supersonic robotic comic.

[01:20:01] Just just the name alone.

[01:20:03] The supersonic robotic comic.

[01:20:05] There's a dancing crash test dummy.

[01:20:07] He just, he's on a like a little broad and just bounces up and down.

[01:20:12] Jerry Pinsler, he's the guy that did all of these sculpts, all these very fancy

[01:20:17] sculpts.

[01:20:17] That was the only thing he's ever done in pinball were these amazing sculpts.

[01:20:22] You can check these out on IPDB.

[01:20:24] They're all connected to coils in one way or another.

[01:20:27] So they all kind of move and dance.

[01:20:29] He's got crazy ramps, but there's no real crazy mech in this game.

[01:20:36] Sort of he used that kind of in the last one.

[01:20:38] But what he loses in mechs, he gains in character.

[01:20:42] I'm like, lab, I'm looking at a picture of the supersonic robotic comic.

[01:20:46] He's not funny.

[01:20:47] He's fast.

[01:20:50] And he sits in the backboard.

[01:20:52] Yeah.

[01:20:52] And he's like a, he's like a, it's like a, a 1950s metal robot with those,

[01:20:59] um, nose glasses, the, like the bus dash nose, the glasses.

[01:21:03] Yeah.

[01:21:03] Yeah.

[01:21:04] And he sells jokes that only kept in a bizarre can understand because he talks like,

[01:21:11] that's literally what he sounds like.

[01:21:12] Perfect.

[01:21:13] The left ramp has a huge opening.

[01:21:18] You cannot miss that.

[01:21:19] The only issue with the game is most of the game is just hitting that ramp repeatedly.

[01:21:24] Just over and over and over.

[01:21:26] But still for atmosphere and silliness.

[01:21:31] It's that ramp that ramp goes through the backboard comes back around.

[01:21:35] It does a 360 loop.

[01:21:37] Yeah.

[01:21:38] It comes back down around to the flipper.

[01:21:40] Yeah.

[01:21:41] It is, it is a serious ramp.

[01:21:43] There's no joking with that ramp.

[01:21:45] Crazy art.

[01:21:47] If the cosmic cottage, don't forget that.

[01:21:50] Yes.

[01:21:51] There's a ramp on, on the right side.

[01:21:53] When those ramps both get down towards the flipper, they don't just sort of

[01:21:57] drop down on the in-lain or out-lane.

[01:22:00] They do this like, almost like the shape of the letter G, right?

[01:22:04] They kind of like swing around and then drop down, which is kind of unique.

[01:22:08] Unfortunately, one of the bummers of it is the ramp on the right side is from a vertical

[01:22:14] upkicker.

[01:22:15] So you don't get to shoot a ramp and it come around.

[01:22:18] You got to shoot it and it stops and then it pops it up onto a wire form and then

[01:22:23] down onto the ramp.

[01:22:24] So that's kind of a, it's kind of a bummer because you want it.

[01:22:26] I don't know.

[01:22:27] I always want to shoot ramps.

[01:22:28] I don't like when there's vertical upkickers to ramps.

[01:22:31] I find that kind of boring.

[01:22:32] And it's got the apron.

[01:22:34] I'll kind of to custom art on it for the matching the theme.

[01:22:38] Let's see.

[01:22:39] What does the flyer say about this?

[01:22:42] You are now entering the party zone.

[01:22:46] But how is this going to increase my earnings?

[01:22:47] You may ask.

[01:22:49] I'll tell you how big bang big bucks.

[01:22:53] Yeah, I think that's like the jackpot shot or whatever it is, the big bang.

[01:22:57] When it's time to party, there's no better place than Valley's party zone for a midway

[01:23:02] manufacturing company.

[01:23:03] Players will have no problem with this guest list.

[01:23:06] None other than the party animals, party monsters and party dudes.

[01:23:11] So they're all, they're all in this game.

[01:23:14] They're, they're including a virus party monsters and trying on the heritage and the party

[01:23:19] dudes from Doctor do they're all here.

[01:23:22] Once they gang arrives at the cosmic cottage, it's a happy hour multi ball party

[01:23:27] where players can collect multiple jackpots and shoot for the ultimate big bang.

[01:23:33] Jimmy Hendrix's purple haze creates the mood.

[01:23:36] Oh, yeah, purple haze is another one of the songs play filled lighting pulses red.

[01:23:40] A sonic boom shakes the play field and players went over 20 million points.

[01:23:46] Wow.

[01:23:47] 20 million captain bizarre turns heads and profits.

[01:23:52] I don't know.

[01:23:53] I don't, I've played this game twice and I, I thought it was fun, but I can see that

[01:23:59] it's start I could, I can almost guarantee if this was in your collection,

[01:24:03] it would just start to grain.

[01:24:04] Oh, I would never, yeah, I would never own it, but I think for a location, definitely,

[01:24:09] definitely.

[01:24:09] How can you turn down the supersonic robotic?

[01:24:12] I'll never get tired of saying it.

[01:24:16] Just the way it says into the game, too, it's the supersonic robotic comic.

[01:24:19] This was Dennis Nortonman's first DMD game as well.

[01:24:22] I think when you start to get into this DMD era, it really significantly changes the way

[01:24:28] you can design a game because you've got this extra level of stuff or information

[01:24:33] you can relay to the, to the player.

[01:24:35] How do you do?

[01:24:36] How did it influence Dennis Nortonman?

[01:24:38] Well, Dennis says, nope, I just let the dot matrix guys do what they wanted to do.

[01:24:43] There you go.

[01:24:44] We had mentioned this before the Dennis is like, I'll design the play field.

[01:24:47] I'll do all that stuff.

[01:24:48] And then he just, he gives it to Greg and Greg makes a game.

[01:24:51] Well, he gives him the art.

[01:24:52] Yeah, exactly.

[01:24:54] He'll, he'll really design whatever it is.

[01:24:57] He'll take it and sort of put it together on the play field and then he'll give it to somebody else and they'll wire it.

[01:25:02] Right. He's really hands off.

[01:25:03] You had mentioned that we start moving into different eras.

[01:25:07] Yeah.

[01:25:07] When it comes to Dennis Nortonman, we are now going to begin the flow era.

[01:25:11] The flow era.

[01:25:12] It's almost like he, like, Steve, are you think you can make flowy games?

[01:25:16] No, I'm going to one up here.

[01:25:18] I'm going to make even more flow.

[01:25:20] Whitewater is his first game in the flow era.

[01:25:24] It is a myth and legend sports theme January of 1993.

[01:25:30] It is a WPC flaketronics to it sells seven thousand and eight units.

[01:25:38] This is almost double the unit sales of Dennis's highest game, Elvira and the party monsters.

[01:25:45] John Yaucy does the art mechanics by wind shilling sound and music by Chris Granner and software by Mike Boone.

[01:25:54] Now this is also a Williams title.

[01:25:56] Yeah. It's a Williams title, not a ballet.

[01:25:58] Yeah.

[01:25:59] Still don't really know what the difference between somebody using it and not is.

[01:26:03] Besides Steve Richie, I have no idea.

[01:26:05] I think we talked about that one of our previous episodes.

[01:26:07] There was something to do with themes too.

[01:26:10] If, if it had a lot of attractive women and stuff, it would always be a ballet.

[01:26:15] You know, there were actual caveats they had.

[01:26:18] Like what, what was the theme?

[01:26:19] And that would also sometimes determine whether it was a ballet or a Williams.

[01:26:23] Whitewater is an interesting theme because Dennis Normans like a motor cross guy.

[01:26:29] He's like a, you know, we call that like X games or back in the day.

[01:26:35] It used to be called like extreme stream.

[01:26:38] But Dennis said, I never did whitewater rafting, but I just thought it'd be an exciting theme.

[01:26:43] So we convinced management that it would be good.

[01:26:45] The weird thing is it has big foot in it.

[01:26:47] I don't think a big foot, typically when I think of whitewater rafting, but he's in there.

[01:26:50] This has some serious ramps and we'll get to that in a second.

[01:26:53] Oh, it's incredible.

[01:26:54] But there's like one Mac of basically a big foot Yeti looking dude.

[01:26:59] Yep.

[01:27:00] And he's, he rotates left and right on the top in the middle of those kind of upper ranks.

[01:27:06] His head can spend 360 and he holds a diverter which moves.

[01:27:10] And he's smiling all creepy like.

[01:27:12] Yep.

[01:27:12] Because it's Dennis Dortmund.

[01:27:14] It is in fact, Dennis Normans got Dennis Normans sort of like mustache.

[01:27:18] And he has this huge fun smile, right?

[01:27:20] Dennis Normans a tall guy.

[01:27:22] So they kind of modeled it after him.

[01:27:25] They didn't kind of it is him.

[01:27:27] And you also mentioned like, why does how does big foot fit into whitewater rafting?

[01:27:33] Well, Dennis says I remember going to the library and getting a lot of books on whitewater rafting

[01:27:37] and learning all about it.

[01:27:38] So I could get all the terminology right and make it seem like a real rafting experience.

[01:27:43] That's where I got the idea for big foot.

[01:27:46] And one of the books I read and mentioned there was a river in Washington state with a legend

[01:27:50] that big foot comes out at night and steals all the rafters supplies.

[01:27:54] So that's how I got the idea for the big foot character in the game.

[01:27:57] There you go.

[01:27:58] Mystery solved.

[01:28:01] On the flyer this time, whitewater.

[01:28:04] Go with the flow.

[01:28:06] Yep.

[01:28:06] This is also unique in that the title of the game is not on the back glass.

[01:28:11] Did you ever notice that?

[01:28:12] I have never noticed that.

[01:28:13] Not on the back glass because the game comes with a topper.

[01:28:18] It's just not nothing you had to pay extra for.

[01:28:20] It came with the game and the thing is it's an animated topper.

[01:28:25] It has like this special foil that gives this water fall effect.

[01:28:29] And it's like uncopyable.

[01:28:31] It's like a strativarius.

[01:28:33] You know, like you can't get the wood to make a strativarius anymore.

[01:28:35] You can't get the however they made this foil.

[01:28:38] It can't be done or it just doesn't exist anymore.

[01:28:41] The thing that they did with this topper is something that's called a negative image.

[01:28:46] And that's what creates that weird image color twinkling thing that it does.

[01:28:53] It's really, really complicated and they tried to make it as simple as they could.

[01:28:58] And it was Greg Ferris who convinced Dennis to do this type of topper.

[01:29:03] There's a whole explanation on IPDB as the to the ins and outs of this.

[01:29:08] But I'll just I'll pull out kind of the basics, which is this complicated process.

[01:29:14] What they do is they print layers and the various layers are designed to be peeled off.

[01:29:21] And that kind of makes the image shine under the light.

[01:29:24] But because the layers are different layers, it cheesed differently.

[01:29:29] And for 20 years now, people have been trying to do repros of that topper and they just can't get it right.

[01:29:34] It just can't get it right.

[01:29:36] They've never been able to replicate it.

[01:29:37] So if you are getting a white water, it better have the topper because you don't have it because you're not going to get one.

[01:29:43] So let's let's when it comes to ramps, we're in a totally different, different sphere now.

[01:29:51] Right. So the the craziest vacuum formed ramps, I think that Dennis Norton did was probably black water.

[01:29:57] Yeah. You can't be black water 100, but for just sure on a Williams game,

[01:30:03] a amount of plastic, you can't be this black water 100.

[01:30:07] They were mountains. They looked like mountains.

[01:30:09] They were just everywhere.

[01:30:10] This thing is literally a mountain.

[01:30:13] It is a crazy vacuum formed ramp that then has plastic ramps that the ball travels on kind of interweaved around within it.

[01:30:27] Yeah. If I remember the the ramp kit, I think it's six separate ramps, like six separate plastic pieces.

[01:30:35] It also has a custom apron that it's slanted down to accommodate the one ramp.

[01:30:44] It's like a custom ramp on the left side.

[01:30:46] Yeah. It's a custom apron.

[01:30:47] You can't you can't just use a regular apron with white water.

[01:30:49] It's a custom apron.

[01:30:51] So you plunge the ball.

[01:30:52] It goes up a wire form and like basically into the mountain.

[01:30:57] Yeah. What do we mention?

[01:30:58] It's a by-level play field.

[01:30:59] Did we mention that?

[01:31:00] I guess we should.

[01:31:02] Because this is this is this is a piece of play field that is cut out and mounted on top of the other play field.

[01:31:09] And then the plastic bits of the mountain kind of go around it to give it the illusion that it is.

[01:31:14] Yeah. I guess a white water rafting adventure.

[01:31:17] But it's it doesn't take up the whole top, but it takes up like the upper right hand section.

[01:31:22] And that's where Bigfoot sits.

[01:31:24] It's almost like two thirds at the top with his diverter.

[01:31:27] And you actually plunge up to this upper play field.

[01:31:29] And then you can either hit it in the whirlpool or you can hit it in the they all have names too.

[01:31:35] The ramps like the spine shiller or the whatever.

[01:31:38] I can never remember which ones are which.

[01:31:41] But there's the crazy one on the left that literally goes up and down.

[01:31:44] It was like a roller coaster.

[01:31:45] Is that called disaster drop?

[01:31:47] That's the thing.

[01:31:48] They have all these names and I always get confused about which one is which.

[01:31:52] They all have signs written on them somewhere.

[01:31:54] As to what part they are.

[01:31:56] But you plunge up to the third flipper on the top play field.

[01:31:59] And you can let it drain to the right flipper.

[01:32:02] You can flip late and catch that sort of the ramp on the left side.

[01:32:07] I want to talk about that in a second.

[01:32:08] Or you shoot early and you get kind of the inside ramp on the upper play field as well.

[01:32:14] And those are kind of up where Bigfoot sits.

[01:32:17] So this ramp on the left side.

[01:32:20] It goes away up and then it takes two wavy drops.

[01:32:25] Just like a whitewater raft.

[01:32:27] One of those drops is very, very unique.

[01:32:31] The ball comes down.

[01:32:33] It goes up the ramp and then it goes tink off the glass.

[01:32:38] And then back onto the ramp down to your flipper where it does one of these G-shaped swings.

[01:32:44] Not on every game.

[01:32:45] It doesn't hit the glass.

[01:32:46] But most of them it does to the point where they actually had a they had like a bulletin,

[01:32:50] a service bulletin saying like yes, this is normal.

[01:32:52] Don't worry about it.

[01:32:53] It's really cool that it tinks against the glass like that because it's a thing that is unique

[01:33:02] and interesting.

[01:33:03] It doesn't take thousands of dollars to make it work.

[01:33:07] But it's incredibly effective and exciting when you see it.

[01:33:10] Very, very cool.

[01:33:12] It also has a world pool shot which is like another one of those kind of goes around a toilet bowl

[01:33:19] kind of thing.

[01:33:19] Right?

[01:33:20] And it goes down into the side.

[01:33:22] It's a funnel.

[01:33:22] But yes, you can call it a toilet bowl.

[01:33:26] How did Dennis Nordman design these ramps?

[01:33:28] How do you do this on drafting paper?

[01:33:31] Well, this is where Dennis sort of started using and really to a higher level than he had used

[01:33:38] before something called foam core.

[01:33:41] Dennis says the hardest thing to do is figure out what toys you want to incorporate,

[01:33:46] where to put them, how to make everything fit and make your shot smooth.

[01:33:50] Some just aren't smooth, but after a while you have experience for what works and what doesn't work.

[01:33:55] It doesn't always work the way you think it's going to work.

[01:33:57] So he would use foam core, which is a lightweight, easily cut material.

[01:34:04] It's often used for mounting photographic prints or the backs of picture frames.

[01:34:10] And a lot of people make scale models and painting with them.

[01:34:14] So he would layer these thin bits of foam core down and then he would basically use various tools

[01:34:22] to design the shapes of his shots and his models.

[01:34:29] So that way when you're shooting the white wood, you can see how the ball will travel on a vacuum

[01:34:35] formed ramp.

[01:34:36] Then he would provide those foam core designs, I guess, to the engineering team and they would make it

[01:34:44] in production.

[01:34:46] This game must have a massive bill of materials or what they call bomb, BOM.

[01:34:51] You got the vacuum form ramps, you got the vacuum formed sculpts of the mountains,

[01:34:58] you've got a big foot kind of toy thing.

[01:35:02] So I'm sure you got to find ways to make it fit within a budget, right?

[01:35:07] Well, Dennis said the nice thing about working at Williams, you could pretty much do whatever you

[01:35:10] wanted to do within budget, but the budget was higher than today or at least went further.

[01:35:15] Now these quotes are from when Dennis was at Stern like in 2005.

[01:35:22] So just for a background on that, he's doing pirates pirates, the Caribbean.

[01:35:26] Yeah, Dennis says at the time for the cost of the game were way higher than what we can do now at

[01:35:31] Stern. There's always stuff we had to take out. I don't think a game like white water could be made

[01:35:36] now. Now again, this was said in 2005. This is before our company's like Jersey Jack.

[01:35:44] I guarantee you Stern's budget's a little higher now if you look at games like Godzilla

[01:35:47] with a full moving building. Yeah, there was also a running joke at Williams that the design

[01:35:52] teams would put drop targets and everything. So in management, ask for stuff to come out,

[01:35:56] you just took the drop targets out. Yeah, the only thing I think that would make this game better

[01:36:01] would be drop targets on the left side. Honest to God, there's the Boulder Garden,

[01:36:06] their pop-upers, but they have cool little Boulder sculps on top of them. Isn't that great full

[01:36:11] theme integration when you hit it in there, the Boulder Garden. Oh, yeah, and they're down

[01:36:17] really close to the break. You can totally get drained out of there. Yes. And the pop-upers

[01:36:21] actually change the whirlpool awards. Very cool. How's the code on this? I love this game.

[01:36:28] This is a great game. I love this game. This is an A level Valley Williams. This is a would

[01:36:33] consider-owning game. Yes. Because it has, well, for the tournament people, it has the thing,

[01:36:40] which is the thing is it has a one of the whirlpool awards is five times scoring. So what you try

[01:36:45] to do is you try to get five times scoring started and then start multi-ball. And the five times

[01:36:51] scoring is only for like, I remember, 20 seconds, 30 seconds, whatever it is. So then you try to

[01:36:57] get the jackpots. When the multi-ball starts, it just feeds the ball to that upper flipper,

[01:37:01] let the upper play feel and you're trying to hit the one ramp. And if you hit them,

[01:37:05] three of them in succession, then all your jackpots are tripled plus you have a five times

[01:37:10] multiplier running. So you just get insane scores. But then it also has the vacation jackpot.

[01:37:15] It's one of the cooler things ever where you do all the features of the game and you start

[01:37:20] multi-ball. And instead of multi-ball starting, the game breaks. Like literally the whole game goes dark

[01:37:25] like you just broke it. And most players like the first time they ever get this, if they don't know

[01:37:30] what it is, they think they broke the game. And then the game will go crazy. Think of like Lord

[01:37:34] of the Rings when you destroy the ring. Yes. And it flips itself and all the everything goes

[01:37:40] just crazy. That's what this does. That's so cool. On IPDB, it has a lot of photos of partially

[01:37:47] stripped play fields. So where the where the ramps have been taken off and you can kind of see

[01:37:53] where the ball is going under there. There is a lot going on. Yeah. Let's just say like when Williams

[01:38:01] would do promotional footage for like distributors, they had they're all out there on the internet.

[01:38:06] Like almost all their 90 games, 90s games they'll have like, they're like promotional. How great

[01:38:13] the game is. And if it's something like like Terminator 2, we keep it on clutter for easy cleaning.

[01:38:20] When they show whitewater, they don't mention anything about cleaning. Yeah. There's, yeah,

[01:38:23] we don't want to bring that up because we don't want to bring that up because this game is

[01:38:26] obscenely complex with just the amount of crap on it. You were not going to be able to clean this

[01:38:31] thing easily. This is this is a lot of fun. I have played this quite a few times. I don't have one

[01:38:37] locally. So I usually end up playing it when I'm out and about, you know, on vacation or something

[01:38:41] when I used to do that. This is this is a lot of fun. This game. But it does take a little bit of

[01:38:47] time to sort of get used to where the feeds are coming from. That's the one thing with a newer

[01:38:53] player that I think might be difficult because things are popping up out of the mine on the left

[01:38:58] side. So there's like subways in this game where the ball will move under the play field and then

[01:39:02] it'll pop up out of the the mine on the left side, which is like a scoop. But you didn't shoot it

[01:39:08] in there or it's going to go into somewhere and come up a vertical up kicker into the upper play

[01:39:14] field. And if you're shooting the world pool side, where does it come out, where is it going?

[01:39:18] There's a lot of like where the heck did the ball go, which is the only negative thing. But at the

[01:39:24] same time, that negative thing makes this game just awesome. And it also has when the up kicker on

[01:39:31] the upper play field kicks the ball up, it plays the sound from it's either a comment or cyclone.

[01:39:35] They reuse the sound. Gah, slackers. Well, I always saw it as they were paying homage to the other

[01:39:41] game. And the thing is even though they made 7,000 of these even years ago, this game was expensive.

[01:39:46] Now it's just obscene. This was always one of those. Is it Dennis Nordman's best game?

[01:39:53] I can't say that when I own one of his other games. Well, some people would say his best game is

[01:39:58] the next one. I'll say White Waters is best original theme game. There we go. Demolition Man, his

[01:40:04] is a licensed sci-fi action movie theme. February of 1994, it is a WPC DCS system.

[01:40:14] Cells 7,019 units, another 7,000 cellar, art by Linda Deel and Doug Watson, mechanics by

[01:40:22] wind-shilling and sound, music by John Hay, software by Ted Estes and Bill Grupp.

[01:40:29] And this was one of the super pin series. The super pin series. So let's explain what a super

[01:40:36] pin series is. It's a wide body. Basically, yeah. Let's jam more crap into the pinball machine.

[01:40:42] Yeah. We need more space to do it. And I used to be able to name them all. It was a Twilight

[01:40:46] Zone, Indiana Jones, Demolman, Star Trek Next Gen. Yeah, Popeye. Roadshow, is that it? It might be it.

[01:40:58] There you go, ladies and gentlemen. Ron Hallett. Not only can you remember everybody's

[01:41:03] social media posts of all time, he could also recite the super pin series. Well, the other thing is

[01:41:10] because this is a license, they had some issues. Yeah, they always have issues. Why people hate

[01:41:16] going and dealing with licenses? According to Doug Watson, he had serious difficulty

[01:41:21] creating the back glass because the movie production team kept rejecting his designs. Oh, yeah,

[01:41:25] this story. Yeah. And Doug eventually discovered that the rejections were off from one person,

[01:41:29] Wesley Stifes. He wanted to ensure he did not look like a crazed character on the back glass

[01:41:34] because he was concerned about his upcoming career in Hollywood. If you watch the movie,

[01:41:38] Wesley Stifes plays a crazed character. Yeah, he's completely like an insane,

[01:41:42] hyper violent criminal. Simon Phoenix. Because of this, the final back glass is much

[01:41:47] simpler than early designs and all three characters were given mathematically equal back glass

[01:41:51] coverage with handsome features. He was concerned. Like this is probably his best role. Yeah,

[01:41:57] oh, no, that would be blade. But yet, Sylvester Stallone is newed on the side art for some reason.

[01:42:02] Oh, my. Yeah. Demolition Man is the 1993 American sci-fi action film. This is directed by Marco

[01:42:11] Bramelia on his directorial debut. It stars Sylvester Stallone, Wesley Stifes, Sandra Bullock.

[01:42:17] Stallone is John Spartan, a risk-taking police officer who is a reputation for causing

[01:42:24] destruction while carrying out his work. That is the typical 1990s cop movie. The renegade cop that

[01:42:32] gets the job done no matter what. And Wesley Snifes is Simon Phoenix. And the opening scene,

[01:42:39] they blow up an entire warehouse and they actually blow it up because, you know, there was no special

[01:42:44] effects in the 90s. They had CGI, but it really sucked then. So they actually blew up the

[01:42:48] warehouse and it's just quite impressive. So this takes that cop against the crazy, you know,

[01:42:54] hyper-violent 90s movie and kind of gives it a bit of a twist. And that is that in 1996,

[01:43:02] because of blowing this up, and I think it was a school or something. No, they blew up a warehouse

[01:43:06] and it turns out the hostages were in the warehouse. John Spartan didn't know that, but they blamed him

[01:43:12] for it because he was the renegade cop. Yeah. So him and Wesley Snifes, they get frozen.

[01:43:18] They get cryogenically frozen, which was the thing in the 90s, where basically you're frozen in

[01:43:24] ice and you live through your prison term in a humane way. Phoenix is thawed and his parole hearing

[01:43:35] in 2032, but he escapes and society has significantly changed in that time where basically crime and

[01:43:44] violence have all been eliminated. But like it's awesome. I highly recommend, can't get too much into

[01:43:50] the movie, but I highly recommend it. It made a crap load of money. Everyone's telling me it was

[01:43:55] a bomb. It's like, here it is, budget, 45 to 77 million box office, 159 million. So yeah, it made

[01:44:04] more than double what it cost to make. So and the game is based on the movie. So in the movie,

[01:44:10] there's like this claw thing. I think it's at the end, like in the final scene. So there is a claw toy

[01:44:19] in the game that you can control. Plus Demo Man is extremely unique in that it has, it has the

[01:44:26] handles. It has these big ass handles that you can use instead of the flipper buttons. All of the

[01:44:32] actors got their own Demo Man pinball machine. No, not she didn't get one. Except for the woman.

[01:44:39] Yeah, that was super. That was the whole thing. Another thing that's really that's really fun

[01:44:44] is that there, this is the era where Williams was doing promo VHS tapes to give to their

[01:44:50] distros. And they would review these tapes to determine if they wanted to purchase that. And the

[01:44:55] marketing team on this boy, oh boy, did they do a heck of a job? It's the one I told you about.

[01:45:02] This is these are the videos I was mentioning earlier, folks. This Demo Man promo video is a whole

[01:45:08] thing. But there's the one for no fear. There's the one for all of the games out there. But this one

[01:45:15] is particularly cringe worthy. So in this video, yeah, they have this woman dressed up like,

[01:45:21] actually, she's dressed up like Stallone was. No, she, no, she's dressed up Sandra Volik.

[01:45:26] Yes, Sandra Volik. And she's like playing the game in all kinds of really weird fashion.

[01:45:32] Yeah, she turns to the camera and she goes, how about a little demolition? And you're like, oh my god,

[01:45:38] that's really bad acting. Yes. And then she says the line, get to Militia Man, it'll blow you.

[01:45:44] And then Joe Dylan, the head of sales who's in this video, he's like, away, it'll blow you away.

[01:45:51] Oh, and then she hit some with a cattle prod. It's like, oh, man, because you can tell this is

[01:45:56] specifically designed for a bunch of dudes who run distros. To be fair, that line is in the movie.

[01:46:03] Yeah, true. Yeah, Shanger, but like to say, the line. And the other thing about this game is,

[01:46:08] this is one of the, I think at first earlier games that Williams actually had a home-ram version.

[01:46:13] Wasn't commercially available, but they did an alternate rom because this is an R rated movie,

[01:46:18] and they obviously could not use. They couldn't use a lot of the lines from the movie because of that.

[01:46:22] So they did like a home-ram version. That's basically on-sensor. And that's the one I'm running.

[01:46:28] Of course. Let's talk about the flow of this game or the shots. It is the flowiest wide body ever.

[01:46:35] Probably because it's not really a wide body wide body. There's two shots on the left that you never

[01:46:40] ever shoot. There's the car crash and like the eyeball thing. Dennis Nordman sort of did something

[01:46:46] very similar to the way Pat Lawler did Twilight Zone is that they sort of squished the left side

[01:46:53] of the play field. So the right side is more of a traditional pinball play field size.

[01:46:58] They kind of filled up the left side. So Lawler put the, what is it? The pyramid power shot thing

[01:47:04] and kind of squished everything. It's the power. The power. The power. So they,

[01:47:09] Nordman sort of did something similar with a couple of shots on the left side that the ball

[01:47:13] doesn't go over there all the time and it's kind of closed off, which is very smart actually.

[01:47:18] And it has, like I mentioned, it has these handles on the side that are big, beefy, metal handles.

[01:47:25] They are not coming off. And I think as the story goes, when they were prototyping this, when they

[01:47:31] had this at Williams, the, um, president, what was his name? The one everyone hates. The one who's

[01:47:37] shutting down. Neil, the cast row, he, like, looked at the handles is like, you know, people are

[01:47:43] going to break those off. So Nordman just took the handles and just shoved the whole game like three

[01:47:48] feet both ways. It's like, yeah, it'll be fine. Dennis Nordman would say that tournament players

[01:47:54] absolutely despised the upright handles. And he didn't care because he thought that it would

[01:48:01] made the game unique and interesting. I don't despise them. And I'm a tournament player.

[01:48:05] Yeah, but you're weird because you're not talking 100. The other thing about the turn, if you play

[01:48:09] with the handles, combination combos are worth more. You get a trigger bonus. So you actually get

[01:48:16] more points if you play with the handles and if you play the flipper buttons. It's a, it's a three

[01:48:20] flipper game. So it's got your two on the bottom. It's got the one on the left, uh, on the left

[01:48:24] side. It has some serious ramps and diverters going on up there. It's great. It is a really great

[01:48:32] game. It is, it is really, really great. But it suffers again from kind of a flat theme.

[01:48:37] Theme is great. You're wrong. The art is not the greatest. I'll give you that. But the thing with

[01:48:42] demo man is it's not, it's like it's not cheesy enough to be a cult hit. And it wasn't successful

[01:48:49] enough to be like a serious hit. So it's kind of got this weird middle of the road kind of ho hum.

[01:48:56] Ho hum. I think it's kind of cool. But it's not quite, they did predict that Taco Bell would rule

[01:49:01] the world. Yeah. And in the movie, all the restaurants eventually go out of business for the

[01:49:07] restaurant wars. And only one restaurant is left. And it's Taco Bell. Unless it's the European

[01:49:13] version of the movie, in which case it was pizza hut for some reason. It's just, it's a, it's a fun

[01:49:17] movie. I watched it quite recently, actually, because it was on, I don't know, it was on Netflix

[01:49:22] or something. So I watched it. I'm like, man, this is a kind of a fun game. But it's like, if you

[01:49:26] had a demo man, if I had a demo man in my house, people wouldn't come in and be like, oh man,

[01:49:31] demo man, I remember that movie. They'd be like, demo man. You'd be like, oh yeah, was this movie

[01:49:34] that he still owns it? Oh, yeah, I remember that. There's other movies that in that era where people

[01:49:39] are like, it's like the shadow. Nobody would ever remember the shadow. It's not cheesy enough to be

[01:49:45] a cult hit. And it's not commercially large enough to be an actual hit. The game is awesome.

[01:49:50] The game is awesome. So it's got a lot of multi balls, right? That was how they really hooked

[01:49:53] you up. It's got four different multi balls. And it's got the, all the claw wars as two,

[01:49:58] as two wizard modes, I guess you could say. Can you explain the claw and the claw rewards first?

[01:50:03] The claw is of the upper left hand corner. And it's literally just like a arm that moves back and forth

[01:50:09] and has a magnet. So you hit the ramp. The claw come over, pick up the ball. And then you can just,

[01:50:15] it's like a magnet. And then you can drop it in one of what is it? Five different spots. They're

[01:50:21] all different claw wards like ones prison, ones super jets, capture Simon, lock freeze, which

[01:50:29] just, it just gives you a multi ball or it gets, it gets multi ball ready for you. And there's the,

[01:50:34] um, oh, what's the other one called? The one where you hit the center over or over that one.

[01:50:39] But if you play through all of these modes, it will light the computer shot for the demolition time,

[01:50:46] which is a cool little wizard mode where you got to hit the stand-ups. It's a multi ball. You hit

[01:50:50] stand-ups and shots, it's stand-ups, add balls. And then you just hit shots and get points.

[01:50:56] That's one of the wizard modes. The second wizard mode is if you go through, it's not really

[01:50:59] wizard mode. If you go through all four multi balls, it will light the right ramp for the demolition

[01:51:04] jackpot, like a combination of all the jackpots you've got. And demolition man is the pinball that will

[01:51:09] blow you away according to the fire. It contains all the star power and fire power of the Warner

[01:51:15] Brothers movie, original and all-new music, sound effects and dialogue with the DCS sound system,

[01:51:22] thunder and clarity, sensational modes and multi ball sequences inspired by the film's most

[01:51:27] memorable scenes and a play field that's years ahead of its time. And it actually has, um,

[01:51:32] slow-own in it, like custom speech, which you would never, you would never be able to get a star

[01:51:36] of that level to do custom speech these days. So it's a, it's a great game. It's a great game. I

[01:51:41] wouldn't own it. But I think it's a great game. People are like going on to the next game. We're tired

[01:51:45] of talking about demo man. Yeah, you can tell them the games that Ron really loves and wants to pump

[01:51:49] up the value. Well, no, I just, I'm, I'm excited. I love demo man. Demoman's fun. I do, I do enjoy

[01:51:56] demo man. Continuing into his, his flow period, his next game, which we did cover in our next

[01:52:02] that made us episode was Indianapolis 500. Super Flutes. Another really great game, Super Flowey.

[01:52:09] Yep. And we also covered scared stiff, which is, which is flowing in his own right.

[01:52:14] So yeah. In pinball is dying, part two Williams, uh, Bally Williams. So you can check out those

[01:52:19] in the archives. We're not going to review them again. We're trying to get you through here. So

[01:52:23] you don't have to pause us and wait. You want to, you want to let's do it all in one go.

[01:52:27] Dennis was let go in the final months of development in scared stiff. That was during sort of the,

[01:52:34] the, the calling of the herd at Williams during that time. Dennis says, I had no idea it was coming.

[01:52:41] That was it. I was done. In fact, that morning, myself, Chris Granger and Paul Height went downtown

[01:52:46] Chicago for a sound recording with Cassandra. Is there working on scare stiff? They had screwed

[01:52:51] up their schedule and Cassandra wasn't available. So we came back to the office and that's when I got

[01:52:56] laid off. It was me, John Trudeau and Barry Owlor. Ouch. Yep. That's a tough, that's a tough day. You

[01:53:02] see those three, you know, workhorse designers. Yeah. Barry Owlor was on vacation. Like he came

[01:53:08] back from vacation to find out he's fired. Barry Owlor wouldn't make another game ever again,

[01:53:14] even though he worked on quite a few designs. After Williams, Dennis would design some redemption

[01:53:20] games for ski ball. He designed one called Tower of Power, which was actually a very popular

[01:53:27] redemption game. And you see those in almost every location that has sort of a vintage redemption

[01:53:35] game. Dennis made some freelance games, which he would sell to Braumley, who is a redemption

[01:53:41] game provider in the 1990s. Joe Kamenkau, who is one of the founders of Daddy East, would contact

[01:53:49] Dennis Norman to work at IGT, which was a mechanical slot machine designing firm at the time.

[01:53:58] They're still around. Still around. They would work. He worked on toppers and bonus reels and

[01:54:04] sort of interesting things. So then that brings us to the year of 2006. Do you remember 2006, Ron?

[01:54:12] Kind of. That was alive. That was the year that Nintendo released their Wii game.

[01:54:16] The Wii. Yeah. Google. They bought YouTube into the

[01:54:21] yeah, I remember that. Yes, the Iranian missile crisis and they did nuclear tests.

[01:54:26] The year. Saddam Hussein was found guilty of war crimes. So was Saddam Hussein, but yes.

[01:54:33] Easter weekend, tornadoes in the US Midwest or tornadoes, as you called them on the

[01:54:38] I love your notes. Damn it. And the winter Olympics in turn in. I don't remember. Yeah.

[01:54:46] It's it's we're Canadian man. The winter Olympics is like the summer Olympics. Yeah.

[01:54:50] It's like a big deal for us in Canada. But you know what? Also happened in 2006.

[01:54:54] No. Dennis Norman did his first game in a decade. Oh my goodness. Dennis comes into Stern pinball.

[01:55:01] At this time, Steve Richie and a few others were working there, Pat Lawler, and they were contract.

[01:55:08] So what they did is they had their own company and Stern hired that company to do a design for them.

[01:55:14] For Steve, I think was SRP Steve Richie productions and Pat Lawler was like Pat Lawler design.

[01:55:20] Very original names. Dennis Norman, however, was an employee of Stern because he would get health

[01:55:25] benefits and a salary and most of the other designers decided that they wanted to get maybe like a

[01:55:31] higher pay and take care of that themselves. The contract designers also were able to work in

[01:55:38] deals for royalties and sales incentives. So if they could sell more, they would get some royalties

[01:55:43] or sale incentives on their games. Dennis, he just settled sort of for the path of least resistance,

[01:55:49] which I think is probably a better idea in my in my mind. His first game back was Pirates of the

[01:55:56] Caribbean. This is a Disney pirate movie theme July of 2006. It is a Stern Sam game. We don't

[01:56:05] have sales numbers because at this time it is a private company. Dennis, Norman on design,

[01:56:10] Kevin O'Connor on art dots by Mark Galvez, mechanics by Ray Tanzer, formerly of Gotley back in

[01:56:18] the day and John Rothmal, Sound and Music by David Thiel, Software, Dwight Sullivan and Lonnie

[01:56:26] Rob. I can say from sources I have until ACDC came along, this was Stern's highest seller.

[01:56:35] Really? I find that surprising. Or at least you have your Lord of the Rings and your Simpsons

[01:56:41] pinball party. So it was on par with them until ACDC came along. They sold a ton of these were

[01:56:49] everywhere. That ship mech, which we'll talk about was insane. When it came out, we couldn't believe

[01:56:57] it was on a Stern. Let's put it that way. It seemed too cool. In 2003, the fantasy swashbuckler pirate

[01:57:04] was produced by Disney and Jerry Brockheimer. The film was based on the intellectual property of

[01:57:10] the pirates of the Caribbean attraction at Walt Disney theme parks. This is like a ride where you're

[01:57:17] sitting on a boat and you're going through a ride at Disney and there's pirates and they're in all

[01:57:22] these funny situations. They're shooting cannonballs over your head and there's fire. It's a great.

[01:57:29] It is fantastic. It has so much nostalgia about that ride. I love that ride. Have you been on

[01:57:36] that ride? Yes. You don't have the same thing. I think. Is it a Disney world or Disney land?

[01:57:43] I think it's both, but it's a Disney world for sure. I don't remember. I don't I think I was in

[01:57:48] the pirates ride. It's very cool. It's a lot of fun. There's a lot of scenes in that movie that are

[01:57:54] derived specifically from the ride and a lot of people don't know that. Do you want to hear something

[01:57:58] amazing? I actually saw the movie. Yes. This is a great movie. Pirates of the Caribbean,

[01:58:04] the curse of the Black Pearl. This is an awesome movie. I liked it. The critics expected the film

[01:58:11] to be a huge flop. It had a hundred and forty million dollar budget in 2003 and it did 654

[01:58:19] million in box office return. It has a 79% rotten tomatoes. Stars Johnny Depp in his iconic

[01:58:28] Jack Sparrow character. Kira Knightley in one of her most I think fun performances and

[01:58:36] Orlando Bloom with a go team. I will say the other reason I actually watched this is because I

[01:58:41] was a Johnny Depp fan. This is what launched the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise which

[01:58:48] consistently didn't get great after this. No. They're fun, but the movies really really really

[01:58:55] dropped by. Yeah. I watched the second one in the theater and I didn't have any desire to

[01:59:00] watch the third one in the theater. And that was the end of that. The pin was not released with the

[01:59:05] film and we spoke about this that in a lot of our other podcasts where Stern is very like risk

[01:59:12] adverse. They usually wait for a film to be a hit and then they'll release it on the second film.

[01:59:19] So if the second film kind of tanks it's not a big deal because the first one people still

[01:59:24] remember that was this and it came out about the same time the second movie came out and they had

[01:59:29] to keep the secret because they had like in the movie like what's in the chest and spoiler alert.

[01:59:34] It's Davy Jones heart is in the chest, but they had to keep that a secret in the game.

[01:59:39] Like they couldn't release the game until the movie came out because that would give away

[01:59:44] that that the heart because they have an opening chest in there that has his heart in it. Yeah.

[01:59:47] The Pirates of the Caribbean Deadman's chest was released in 2006 and at world's end would follow

[01:59:54] in 2007 and this is like that. I you know cliffhanger ending kind of movie with the then the follow-up.

[02:00:01] Deadman's chest would do a billion dollar box office in 2006 which is huge, huge numbers.

[02:00:09] And worlds end that would follow a little bit short at 960 million which is still massive.

[02:00:16] After that there was 2011's on stranger tides and dead men tell no tales in 2017 and there's

[02:00:26] apparently another to be released and another spin on it. It's Disney they're going to keep doing it.

[02:00:31] They're going to beat it into the ground. They're all kind of fun. The first three are the only ones

[02:00:38] that matter. The first one is an all-time classic. Absolutely. This has some crazy ramps as well.

[02:00:45] This has some crazy crazy ramps. Dennis brings back the mix master. It makes it it makes it a triumphant

[02:00:51] return. It's on the left side. Yeah there's basically three main toys on this thing. There's a mix

[02:00:57] master. There's a chest that opens and then there's the pirate ship. The pirate ship is in the pirate ship.

[02:01:04] I mean for stern they were not known for having incredible max. I mean they would have like a toilet.

[02:01:10] Yeah but they had the the ring shot things like that but this was a ship that actually you would

[02:01:17] hit it and the sales and people forget about this part. The sales actually move too on it. They jiggle.

[02:01:22] They go up and down and you keep it and the thing rocks back and forth like a ship and if you

[02:01:26] hit it enough times it will literally sink into the play field and it will go up and then go down

[02:01:32] into the play field. It like collapses on itself and folds and then into the play field down into

[02:01:38] the bottom. This thing was so was a bit of a problem. They actually had to put a massive ball

[02:01:44] air ball protector over it which looks terrible that most people took off. Yes it does.

[02:01:49] This has an iconic plunge. You plunge up to a clear play field basically that's

[02:01:56] that's a vacuum formed ramp that has a sticker on the bottom and it's very skill shot based

[02:02:04] which is really cool. You can you can shoot it really short and it'll come back to the flipper

[02:02:09] on the right side. You can go all the way up to like almost like a mini world pool shot that kind

[02:02:15] of jiggles down into the pop bumpers. You can walk the plank which is just short of that little

[02:02:21] drop hole that goes into the pop bumpers a little bit deeper. On the left side there's the rum ramp

[02:02:28] which is like a zigzag kind of flowy ramp down to the left side into the left in lane. Yep and if

[02:02:34] you're playing in an tournament you always short plunge. You go to the right flipper and you hit it

[02:02:37] in the mix master. Yep you just shoot it up into what's the port royal or tortuga shot. The

[02:02:43] tortuga shot the thing of the code unfortunately is a bit lacking because you shoot up which is

[02:02:49] weird for Dwight Sullivan by the way. You shoot up into the spinning disc and then there's there's

[02:02:55] targets and you bounce it around in there and then it'll come back down the ramp and then you

[02:03:00] shoot it again up there and I think you do it what twice or two however it depends how many targets

[02:03:06] you hit if you hit enough targets multi ball be ready then you hit it up there it starts multi ball

[02:03:11] then you can hit more up there the more balls you shoot up into the tortuga shot into the spinning

[02:03:17] disc it locks more balls it shoots you know you can lock what three or four balls up there and then

[02:03:23] it increases your multiplier. Yeah something like that I wasn't and then you shoot your targets

[02:03:28] and get your jackpots because I always while the balls are played the same way I just hit the mix

[02:03:32] master start multi ball it hits keep in the mix master hit the ship and that's it that's all I

[02:03:38] would that's all I knew how to do on the game the funny thing is all all the players when we would

[02:03:42] play it we would call the mix master yeah it has a jack the monkey shot which is like an inverted 180

[02:03:48] ramp where it goes up into the ramp and into the habit trail down to your right side has dead man's

[02:03:54] chest so you shoot that a bunch of times and then the chest opens up to reveal davi jones's heart.

[02:03:58] This is Dwight Sullivan's major game when he gets back into stern you can really see a lot of

[02:04:06] Dwight Sullivan's fingerprints on this game it has a really deep wizard mode to get to it's got a

[02:04:12] couple of mini wizard modes things it's kind of wood choppy right you shoot the same shot over and

[02:04:17] over again which is kind of a bit of a trope in that late 90s 2000s era and the game is a lot of

[02:04:24] fun it's very cool I like this game a lot high flow game but it is so stop and go catch the ball weight

[02:04:35] line it up shoot catch the ball like it in no way incentivizes you to shoot the ball it is

[02:04:43] clunk a source if you think the simsons pinball party is clunky so we can tell you played this game a lot

[02:04:50] I have I like this game I really do I like the theme I like the most I get a certain like it because they

[02:04:57] sold a ton of these yeah it's fun I like the movie it's a lot of fun it's got some cool toys I had a

[02:05:01] friend of mine who had one of these as well and I played it a bunch in his place and I really liked

[02:05:07] it but it didn't last long and honestly the art is not that bad especially for this era the

[02:05:11] the Photoshop era of Stern it is not bad at all they didn't put a lot of character faces on it

[02:05:16] they avoid it as a single best Johnny Depp impersonator I've ever heard it's not actually

[02:05:22] not Johnny Depp that would that's a Disney approved Jack Sparrow Johnny Depp sound alike and man he was

[02:05:30] good it was he was very good it's like I I wouldn't mind a sound alike if they're that good one of

[02:05:35] the issues I think with the flow and the clunk is that there's no orbit shot well Dennis says about

[02:05:42] the orbit shot my reasoning was I was trying not to intimidate a casual or new player how many of

[02:05:48] those players have any idea about those kinds of shots it must have appeal to a lot of people

[02:05:53] because we saw five thousand of those at this point well there you go so he's just basically like

[02:05:57] you know what it doesn't have an orbit shot but who cares ice older bunch of them so now yeah

[02:06:01] and you know what he's actually he that is actually quite true 100% true it's all that selling

[02:06:06] games about selling games is it Scott over at the loser kids has one of these and it'll never leave

[02:06:12] his house it it it means that much to him and his wife and his family that they just love this game

[02:06:17] I don't know if it would last a long time in my my collection but I think it would well if you

[02:06:22] want to if you want to sell me one really cheap you know you know four thousand Canadian let me know

[02:06:28] let's Dennis say the secrets of pinball design are well he says I don't think there's any one secret

[02:06:33] there's several combinations of all elements that could make a fun game you don't need all the

[02:06:38] elements in every game for example pirates doesn't have flow but it's fun and successful white

[02:06:43] water and demo man had much more flow and they were successful I don't know the secret to successful

[02:06:49] game because there's just dozens of different approaches as he would prove with the next game

[02:06:55] Ron have you seen the special winlit document yes the pirates of the Caribbean pinball machine was

[02:07:01] predominantly featured in there is an example of new pinball design and code and there's a really

[02:07:08] great scene where they have Dwight Sullivan explaining what happens when you shoot the ship

[02:07:13] and it is hilarious because Dwight's obviously excited to show this he's super excited about his

[02:07:19] new game which is even crazier that they're letting somebody record them before the game is even out

[02:07:24] and in this documentary there's a lot of Dwight speak and we've talked about Dwight speak before

[02:07:30] right sure we have Chuck art says that Dwight speak is when he can't get things out of his head

[02:07:36] they're in his head but he can't get that out and he just goes on and on and on which is pretty

[02:07:41] funny one other thing that's really cool about special winlit is a lot of the tournament players

[02:07:46] that are featured in this game are complaining about how complicated the new code in all of these

[02:07:53] games is it's because they're all old and now in 2022 14 to 16 year olds that are winning

[02:08:01] championships are like what's the problem seems fine we're looking at this code and we're like man

[02:08:06] I just wish I could shoot it into the tortuque shot again over and over and over and get a higher

[02:08:11] score you know what I mean like it's it's pretty funny that that was the critique that pirates of

[02:08:16] the Caribbean was too complicated of the code stern's manufacturing line is very very interesting

[02:08:23] in fact they would often put machines on and off of the manufacturing line in manufacturing run

[02:08:31] it is like it is like a no no to ever take things off of a line and then put them back on usually

[02:08:38] you run something till it's done and then you move on so it's really unique that stern will

[02:08:44] revisit titles over and did it right Williams did it wrong Williams would cut off things like

[02:08:50] attack from bars or they could have rerun it that they use that policy stern was always like if

[02:08:55] if Simpson's been bought part is popular you know we'll do the next game but we're going to put

[02:09:00] Simpson's back on if we have you know we have time we got to keep the line busy so the Simpson's

[02:09:06] pinball party had at least six or seven runs Lord of the rings same pirates went back to run a

[02:09:12] few hundred more as well they did that's how big a seller this game was the logistics involved in

[02:09:18] in taking all of that stuff off of the line and putting on totally different game on the line

[02:09:25] that's a big deal I don't think hobbyists and those in pinball really appreciate how incredibly

[02:09:32] difficult that is and how amazing it is that stern actually does that for them to go through like

[02:09:38] 2022 is the year of like catch up on all our back orders if you look at their schedule that

[02:09:45] they're switching back and forth between titles that is a huge feat and you know we should all

[02:09:50] kind of give some credit where credit is due up next I know I know this is the game that all

[02:09:55] everybody loves wheel of fortune

[02:10:06] run this is the licensed game show theme from October of 2007 it is a stern Sam system designed by

[02:10:15] Dennis Norton with the art of Kevin O'Connor and Margaret Hudson dots by Mark Galvez mechanics

[02:10:23] Lonnie Rob music and sound by David Field software by the legend Keith P. Johnson Lonnie Rob

[02:10:31] and Lyman Sheets Jr. Take it away Rob your game show voice that's right uh yeah this was

[02:10:41] an interesting game I'll say that why would you choose this I of all the things that you could

[02:10:48] choose why would you choose wheel of fortune I can't answer that question Dennis says I like the

[02:10:53] theme and I was happy to get it I think it's a kind of game that you're going to walk up to we keep

[02:10:58] trying to do things to attract new players we just design games for the hardcore players we be

[02:11:02] out of business we have to keep trying to attract new people okay so that makes a little more

[02:11:07] serious Johnson says it's used a lot older than what our demographics supposedly is 20 somethings

[02:11:13] and bars people thought it would be a good theme because at least around Chicago area that show was

[02:11:18] always on TV when people get off work they go on to bars I think one of the biggest problems that

[02:11:24] occurred in general was that was basically the south side of Chicago people thought that was a

[02:11:28] microcosm of the rest of the nation in terms of what was going on and I don't know that was

[02:11:32] necessarily the case okay so Keith Johnson's kind of on the other side where it was like I don't

[02:11:37] know Dennis says when anybody walked up to the game they're going to know exactly what their main

[02:11:42] goal is and exactly what they have to do a lot of games are so confusing and you don't know what

[02:11:46] you're supposed to do as a casual player you just bash the ball around and hope something good

[02:11:51] happens but with a fortune you know that you're supposed to solve word puzzles yeah so that makes

[02:11:57] sense that's you know I mean real fortune I think is a bit of a turd theme but he is a hundred

[02:12:02] percent right if you're a casual person you're gonna be like oh I got to spell words I'll pick a

[02:12:06] tea pat like it has callouts like that why remember in Europe they were like what what is this we've

[02:12:14] no idea what this is yeah the other thing was that the producers were very hands on and protective

[02:12:19] of this license Dennis wanted to do more silly things more fun awkward puzzles to solve but the

[02:12:27] IP holders were much more conservative and they didn't want anything like that so some of the fun

[02:12:33] trips that people could win some of the prizes in the script were all more or less overruled

[02:12:38] when it be cool they had like a captain bizarre head that was Pat say Jack see there you go

[02:12:43] this game also features original speech by Pat say Jack the host of Wheel of Fortune and Charlie

[02:12:51] O'Donnell the shows and now sir okay all right so if we go if we go back to the code again so if we

[02:13:00] go if we go beyond the theme itself kind of being a I don't know what's up with the theme

[02:13:05] Dennis would say that Keith got on this game and I was really happy that Keith was there and Keith

[02:13:12] was excited I don't know if he actually was well but he at least fake to fake it till you make it

[02:13:17] we should talk about the play field because the one thing that they don't mess with anymore

[02:13:24] is the bottom for the flippers are it's always the Italian bottom or to everyone to call it

[02:13:29] you know in lanes lead to the flippers out lanes Wheel of Fortune does not have that this has in

[02:13:36] the center all these posts and two lanes you can drain through yeah this is very like old school

[02:13:45] wood rail in the out lanes actually if you drain in out lanes you have one of two lanes you can

[02:13:51] go into you can get a free spin if you you go under the correct lane you can get your ball back

[02:13:57] it's like a second chance yeah but the in lanes there's just one in lane and it's not it's not

[02:14:04] kind of north south and then moves to the flipper they're kind of already on an angle when when

[02:14:09] they drop down from it's very very ballie like I must say and it's really weird I'm surprised they

[02:14:17] let him do it they let him do it because he sold five thousand plus units in his previous game but

[02:14:22] you can tell that after this never again it also has kind of a bash toy in the top with the

[02:14:29] contestants well they're not there they're just bobble heads the bobble heads are the contestants of

[02:14:34] the show right there spin in the wheel and it's Keith Maria and Lauren it's it's Keith Johnson

[02:14:39] Lonnie Rob and Maria was a someone who worked on the line they literally just pulled her and just

[02:14:44] used her likeness I wonder she even got paid I doubt it Keith is awesome he's got his pens yeah

[02:14:50] it's got his pens in his tie it's got his glasses on his little wispy hair it's got Lonnie who

[02:14:56] looks like he's about to murder somebody the the left side has a very similar shot to pirates where

[02:15:01] there's like a shot behind the ramp or behind the behind drop behind stand-up targets which is

[02:15:07] under the ramp this very similar to pirates and it has a very wiggly vacuum formed ramp it's

[02:15:13] fun it's very whimsy right it's it's clearly wheel of fortune like you cannot mistake it that

[02:15:20] it is in fact the main toy is the wheel the the fortune wheel as it were the wheel of fortune and it's

[02:15:27] spins it's fully controlled it can stop on whatever it needs to stop on it's a pretty cool toy

[02:15:34] the code really shines here that's Keith Johnson again at this era of Keith Johnson he is just

[02:15:42] full of excitement and great ideas the only issue with the game is the entire industry was

[02:15:49] tanking I remember I went to expo the year they were making this in the factory in the factory

[02:15:55] was almost empty it was it was not pretty and I remember they cut this like they never like Keith

[02:16:02] finished the code it never it never was done there's there's like one of the inserts which is the

[02:16:07] wizard motor whatever it it doesn't even light up like there it's not even program about the

[02:16:12] unfinished code Keith says I don't have any regrets with any game that I worked on other than wheel

[02:16:16] of fortune not getting finished I'm happy with every single game that I've worked on has turned out

[02:16:21] good wheel of fortune definitely was on the right track I just didn't get the extra resources that

[02:16:25] I needed to get the game done so that brings us to the end of the episode Ron we've seen a lot of

[02:16:31] amazing crazy ramp designs and a lot of interesting fun eras in Nordman's career or at least early

[02:16:40] career Dennis Nordman is now working at American pinball as a designer and he's very much in charge

[02:16:47] of mentoring the younger up and comers who are designing over at American pinball so there's a lot

[02:16:53] of exciting things I think on the horizon game since turn I mean according to him he designed

[02:16:59] most of what you see an alien by highway and now pinball brothers making that he did a bunch of

[02:17:07] designs at deep root pinball which never saw the day and now he's at American and this year we

[02:17:13] should be seeing a Dennis Nordman title which is exciting I hope we can I hope we can see something

[02:17:19] from Dennis Nordman he also did a contract game with with whiz bang his company with Greg for

[02:17:27] eras where they did what was that really offensive one it's it was called whoa Nelly big juicy

[02:17:33] melons yeah so that's a whole controversy in itself that we can review he also worked with

[02:17:38] multi morphek on lexelite speed he's done one of those pitch and bat games called zombie all stars

[02:17:45] worked with jersey jack supposedly on um was it was it was it a vase that pop bumper on the lower

[02:17:52] left there that was his idea yeah so there's he's still very active in a very exciting part

[02:17:59] in pinball and he will rise again in another one of our episodes and we cover some of the

[02:18:05] goings on later on in the 2010s and beyond Ron what is your favorite game we talked about today

[02:18:16] not necessarily the one that you own oh okay that's not the one I own then it's white water

[02:18:21] it's white water yeah I'm gonna have to say white water is probably the one that I would love

[02:18:26] to have uh in my collection it's just so iconic so fun and different and it's fun to shoot probably

[02:18:34] followed by indy indy 500 indy 500 really I love that game I would probably follow up if I had

[02:18:41] a if I had to choose a second game from dentist noradman I'm gonna go pirates the Caribbean and even

[02:18:46] though it's a clunky snooze fast it's a cool game that I really enjoy playing nonetheless tennis

[02:18:52] has a lot of different styles and you know you always got to challenge yourself with with new ideas

[02:18:58] dentist says I still like to experiment with new stuff and when you experiment you can fail a lot

[02:19:04] or not always be successful but that's what makes the design process challenging and keeps me

[02:19:08] interested when I just start doing clones of something that was successful it wouldn't be fun for

[02:19:14] me anymore wow that's deep I wish more designers would take that approach to yeah don't just keep

[02:19:20] making T2 over and over like be afraid to fail although you know to be fair there was a period in

[02:19:28] pinball where it's hanging on by a thread where you can't afford to fail you know it could be the

[02:19:33] end of the company if you fail I think at least in the current climate we're at a point where that

[02:19:39] is not the case I think it's it's time people can take a little more chances

[02:19:51] as always you can send your comments questions corrections and concerns to

[02:19:56] suitable chronicles at gmail.com we look forward to all your messages and we read everyone please

[02:20:02] subscribe to us on Apple Podcast Google Podcast all your favorite park catcher the favorite is still

[02:20:08] spelled wrong there that is just saying there's no you in there but you have a British accent well

[02:20:13] I don't care I'm American now turn on automatic downloads so you don't miss a single episode remember

[02:20:18] to leave us a five-star review ever you found us or on this weekend pinball promoted database

[02:20:23] that way more people can find us do you want to plug the shirts to and the shits yes it's

[02:20:28] sealable swag.com go check out our shirts they're awesome

[02:20:58] yeah give me one second uh-huh

[02:21:28] this is before companies like Jersey Jack were created specifically to

[02:21:34] make more expensive games. Are you okay did you fall over oh I forgot I moved away from my microphone

[02:21:40] yeah hold on. A ride a ride a ride a ride a ride. All right. How's it going there Peter?

[02:21:48] God drain that lizard you know oh gank gank gank gank gank gank gank

[02:21:52] all right so Dennis made a drawing of a pinball magame a pinball magame wow it's a

[02:21:59] pinball magame that's a ride. Oh Joe uh oh god I got it right here yes

[02:22:09] Joe Devola no call a hand call a no no oh here it is Dylan. Joe Dylan yeah Joe Dylan

[02:22:17] okay dude you gotta see that you gotta see this video it's fucking insane

[02:22:26] and that was Elvira and the party monster you can't say party wow wow

[02:22:35] ramps ramps are the true highway for pinball they're both the ends and the means the alpha

[02:22:43] and omega the Yin and the Yang ramps are nothing and everything before I dawned the cow and began my

[02:22:53] quest to rid the pinball manufacturing landscape of con men and Nerdoel's I honed my ramp creation

[02:23:01] craft as a neophyte in the art I knew I had to journey and learn from true masters of elevated

[02:23:07] precision I searched for years until finally in the Himalayan mountains I found an organization

[02:23:15] dedicated to vacuum-formed precision and hot habitrails they were known as the League of Slap Saves

[02:23:23] their leader rampal ghoul took me in and trained me as a master designer looking at the world

[02:23:31] under glass not as a two-dimensional playfield but as a three-dimensional underclass experience

[02:23:38] as many know I learned that rampal ghoul and the League of Slap Saves were not actually pursuing

[02:23:44] pinball perfection but instead planned to use the silver ball as a weapon against humanity

[02:23:51] I stopped them with my fists and brage and superior design intellect to this day I continue to

[02:23:59] hone my ramp creating craft boulder designs deeper visions more expressive experiences but my

[02:24:07] priority as a silver ball knight is to ensure we never see a new League of Slap Saves and false

[02:24:14] pinball manufacturers who cannot even provide designers with an engineer must be exposed and the

[02:24:21] pinball community alerted such as the fate of the pinball canary in the coal mine because pinball has

[02:24:27] shown us all that it is full of people ready to believe in completed games I am the Nordman
