# Transcript: 2024-04-11_Yes..._More_Roger_Sharpe.mp3

**Transcribed**: 2026-01-14 11:46  
**Model**: whisper-base  
**Duration**: 1:17:19

---

[00:00] The pinball network is online. Launching. Silver ball chronicles.

[00:10] Hey, didn't play that bad. It doesn't matter that it plays well. It doesn't matter the rock.

[00:23] What is this episode 37? Yes it is. Looks like 37 here. Somebody share this? Yeah I had

[00:29] a fixed title.

[00:59] Hello everyone, I'm David Dennis and this is Silver Ball Chronicles and with me is Ron

[01:08] Ham sandwich halit how you doing my friend? I don't think I've ever had a ham sandwich.

[01:13] That's the best kind of sandwich. Montreal smoked meat, very good sandwich, but ham sandwiched great go to.

[01:19] Great go to little mayo, some mustard. I like me chicken parm, so. Oh chicken parm, very good. That's very fancy.

[01:26] It's very, so because of your hotel, you know, right? Yeah, the Thai food is the best food that exists. I love the

[01:32] Vio sandwich. Very good, very good. What's up fellow? What have you been doing? You've been busy?

[01:37] Just working. Lots of work. She was just a Texas. You were back, you're flying all over the place.

[01:43] Oh yeah, I forgot that. Yeah, yeah, I went to TPS. And it was brilliant. It was amazing. You won the tournament down there I hear?

[01:51] No, I didn't win in the tournament. I didn't even qualify. Is it one of those hard ones? I mean, they're all hard tournaments.

[01:59] They're all hard. Everything's hard. Hard format or whatever. But the cool thing is there was less people there and had a different layout.

[02:06] So it was, it's just less crowded, which made it more enjoyable. Great. That's wonderful. I've heard that a few times. I was on, I didn't need my earplugs this year.

[02:14] Cool. I was on the, the pinball show with Dennis Kreisel a couple of weeks ago. And we spoke a lot about, about TPS and the experience and the vibe as the kids call it today on the pinball show Patreon exclusive section of the podcast.

[02:34] If you wanted to get more exciting boring history, which is a COVID recap from a historical perspective, that's your episode of the pinball show.

[02:46] I like how you said a couple of weeks ago when it was just this week. See you're allowing for the editing time. Very smart, very smart. It's the magic of editing.

[02:54] Oh, Amen. I just blew that by saying that. I'm sorry. It was weeks ago.

[02:58] And speaking of editing, sorry about the last episode's audio editing.

[03:04] Get your commercials.

[03:06] So if you don't want me to blow out your speakers in your car or your eardrums, subscribe to our Patreon over at patreon.com slash silver ball chronicles where there's no commercials.

[03:17] No commercials.

[03:18] So something happened there when I extracted the audio. It was weird. I went back to edit it really quick because everybody was sending emails in about the commercial being me.

[03:30] People messaging me like, what the hell happened? Yeah, it was pretty bad. It was really bad. So that won't happen this month. I'll be extra diligent.

[03:37] But when I extracted it from the from the audio software, the sound levels got all weird. But when I was editing it, it was perfectly fine.

[03:47] And I know that because I went back to fix it so I could get it so I could fix it and re-upload it so you know, new people didn't blow their eardrums out.

[03:56] It still did it. So hopefully it's not going to happen this month. I like how you said it won't happen this month.

[04:03] You didn't say it won't happen again. I like that. You're covering yourself. You're covering yourself.

[04:08] It's I'm a hobbyist. I'm just doing this for the sh** and giggles. For the love for all of the love I get.

[04:15] And all that love I can get over on our social media channels. So you can join us at silverball chronicles.com.

[04:24] Check out the website where there's show notes, all of that stuff in our archives.

[04:29] As well as our Facebook page, Facebook.com slash silverball chronicles if you want to chat with us there.

[04:35] Or as I mentioned before, our Patreon.

[04:38] We've had some people pop in for a month or two and leave just to say thanks and they've supported us along the way.

[04:44] Nothing has changed. The podcast will always be free on our dedicated feed and the TPN feed.

[04:50] For $6 a month, you can get ad free access to our episodes early.

[04:56] You get access to our private discord chat room. You can talk about some of the upcoming themes.

[05:03] It's a really great place to be. But if you want to go one level up to our top tier, elitist cronies, you can get a t-shirt after three months.

[05:13] Just to say thanks to Ron and I.

[05:16] But if they don't want to sign up for Patreon, but still want to keep warm, where should they go?

[05:21] They should go to silverballswag.com.

[05:24] We are big down under. Did you know that?

[05:27] I'm more sure.

[05:28] I'm more sure.

[05:29] Down under than we do to the north east.

[05:32] So nobody around us cares at all about our t-shirts. It's just people who are way down under.

[05:39] I love saying that, don't you?

[05:42] Roger Sharp is hailed as the man who saved pinball.

[05:46] And you remember that from our previous episode.

[05:49] He did a thing one time in the 1970s in a court room.

[05:53] But he's so much more than that.

[05:56] In this episode, we're going to talk about the 1980s Roger Sharp, who had an awesome mustache.

[06:03] Then we're going to talk about the licensing 1990s Roger Sharp, who had an awesome mustache.

[06:10] And then we're going to talk about the 2000s Roger Sharp, also stunning mustache.

[06:17] And then we're going to talk about a movie about Roger Sharp with a guy with a terrible mustache.

[06:24] So let's summarize the last episode, Ron.

[06:29] So we began sort of talking about Roger Sharp, what he did to get into pinball,

[06:36] his early journalistic endeavors. Then he ended up designing some games for Game Plan and a couple in there at Williams.

[06:47] But what was the exciting bits about that last episode?

[06:51] The exciting bits?

[06:52] Yeah, where were the peaks? Where did we peak in that episode?

[06:56] I don't know, where did we peak in that episode? It was a long time ago. It's been a while since we recorded.

[07:01] And you probably can't even remember because your ears are damaged.

[07:05] Around the 1980s, in the middle of the 1980s, Roger was working for a video game magazine.

[07:12] And I mean, if that's not the peak, I don't know what is.

[07:15] And he was casually working with Game Plan to do some designs.

[07:21] Ron, you don't have a copy of the pinball compendium, do you?

[07:26] Is that the one with the pictures?

[07:28] Yes, Michael Schlub.

[07:30] Schlub or something. I don't think it's Schlub.

[07:33] Man, you butcher names. I believe I have all of his picture books somewhere in this house.

[07:39] Yeah, so I use that as a really great resource for us here.

[07:43] And in here, there is a section on Game Plan.

[07:48] I'm looking at 1982 to present, which is not actually present. That's like 2012 or something.

[07:54] It sort of talks about this sort of Game Plan revival.

[07:58] Game Plan was a smaller manufacturer who did a lot of like novelty games and stuff,

[08:05] but they did dabble in some pinball machines, didn't they?

[08:10] We heard about it last episode. Sharp Shooter.

[08:12] And you are a big Game Plan collector, isn't that right?

[08:16] I wouldn't mind if I was going to have a Game Plan game, it would be the one we're about to talk about.

[08:22] Roger had designed Sharp Shooter, and then he designed a follow-up to that Sharp Shooter 2.

[08:27] But these games are not selling gangbusters, right? They're selling three or four or five hundred.

[08:33] Why all of a sudden do you think that they disappeared?

[08:37] Game Plan kind of stopped making pinballs kind of for a two-year period from like 82 to 84.85.

[08:44] Video games.

[08:45] Ah, yeah, the crash that we always talk about.

[08:48] Video game crash. Everybody's out of there. There's a huge recession in the industry.

[08:54] They just can't make a whole lot of money.

[08:57] But it was around 1984, in the end of 84 and 85, where Game Plan had considered getting back into manufacturing a few pinball machines.

[09:08] And that's when they started make it up a couple of cool machines.

[09:13] One of those machines is Captain Hook. Do you remember Captain Hook?

[09:17] I don't remember that one.

[09:19] Yeah, it was like a boat.

[09:21] Could there be a game I haven't played?

[09:23] Could be. And then there's Andromeda.

[09:25] Yep, that I played.

[09:26] That one you played. That's like a space one.

[09:29] It's got a weird back glass or eyes or weird.

[09:32] Yeah.

[09:34] And then we've got Roger Sharp, who stepped up to do a game called Cyclops.

[09:39] And Roger would say that he did some research.

[09:42] And he found that two Cyclops is in old Cyclops? Cyclops? Cyclops? Cyclops? Cyclops? Cyclops? Cyclops?

[09:50] Okay. And he knew exactly how he wanted to present the game.

[09:55] He wanted it to be a village being taken over, ransacked by giant mythological cyclopses.

[10:03] Huh? Isn't that a cool theme?

[10:06] It is.

[10:07] And what's a Cyclops for those who are unfamiliar?

[10:10] It's a creature with one eye.

[10:12] Yeah, it's got one clops.

[10:15] Yeah. Yeah. He's not cross-eyed. He's just got one.

[10:20] I just watched what the seventh voyage of Sinbad, any of those Ray Harryhausen movies you see

[10:25] with a Cyclops looks like.

[10:27] Sinbad.

[10:28] All right, Sinbad.

[10:30] Yeah, seven voyage of Sinbad. You know, the stop motion animation.

[10:34] Yeah, when was that?

[10:36] That was in the 50s.

[10:38] All right, all right.

[10:40] But it's not like Sinbad the actor.

[10:43] Oh, no, no, no, no.

[10:46] I don't know. Did that land?

[10:49] Oh, no, not at all.

[10:52] All right.

[10:53] This is Cyclops. It's November of 1985.

[10:56] It sells 400 units designed by Roger Sharp, art by Shamist Mglachlan, and software by Raymond Merch.

[11:04] I'm sorry, Merchant. And we've seen Raymond of quite a few times pop up with his software design

[11:10] in these smaller groups.

[11:13] This is a fun theme, actually.

[11:16] I kind of like this game just by the looks of it.

[11:19] I've never played it because it is quite rare.

[11:21] Oh, you've never played it? Okay.

[11:23] 400 units is pretty rare.

[11:25] Yeah, I've played it many, many times.

[11:28] Really? A bunch of times.

[11:31] It is game plan's best game. It's the best game plan game I played.

[11:36] Is that because of the rules or the shots?

[11:39] Yeah, shots. Shoot's good.

[11:42] Now, when we look at the play field here, we've got some Roger Sharp, like, consistencies, I guess, like things that Roger likes.

[11:51] He likes the pop-up or right by the flippers.

[11:53] The left flipper is not what they call that Italian bottom where it's the in lane and an out lane.

[11:59] And then the slingshot. That is on the right.

[12:02] But on the left side, there's a pop bumper.

[12:05] And it's in the shape of an eye or a cyclops.

[12:08] That's a cool idea.

[12:11] Yep, all the pop-up are eyes.

[12:13] Yeah, which is creepy. Very, very creepy.

[12:15] Spinners are eyes, too.

[12:17] So, this is where I think it gets really exciting.

[12:20] Is Roger knows people love spinners?

[12:23] And there are two orbit spinners.

[12:25] Yep.

[12:26] And they make cool sounds when you hit them.

[12:28] One of them is you come down the in lane on the right side, so not the pop-up on the side at the bottom.

[12:34] And then you can, like, one time it right up into that spinner up to the top lanes.

[12:39] That is gotta be an awesome shot because it's super tight to that pop-up burn.

[12:44] And if you hit, if you're off and you hit that pop-up burn, you're probably dead.

[12:48] But if not, you're into that spinner.

[12:51] Three flipper layout on this game.

[12:54] This got that four set of drop targets.

[12:57] Again, you got to shoot between the two upper midfield pop bumpers with a mini flipper into those drop targets.

[13:05] Awesome shot.

[13:06] Like, he's really putting some thought into these now, aren't he?

[13:09] And the art is very interesting.

[13:11] It's wild, isn't it?

[13:13] How would you describe this art?

[13:15] Uh, ass.

[13:17] There was more ass in this game than any game ever made.

[13:21] And that's saying something.

[13:23] So it doesn't look like ass.

[13:25] There's ass on it.

[13:26] There's lots of ass.

[13:29] Yeah.

[13:30] This is done by Shamus, McGlockland.

[13:33] Good job, Shamus.

[13:34] He was available and he was interested to work in the project because him and Roger had worked together before.

[13:41] They had, they have some relationship together.

[13:46] And, um, of course, somebody asked you to do a pin go ahead.

[13:50] And, and Shamus went for it here.

[13:52] So it's a village, as mentioned before.

[13:54] It's like a village being ransacked by these cyclopses.

[13:59] Um, but this village has a lot of like ladies, uh, who don't have a lot of clothing on.

[14:05] Yep.

[14:06] And butt cracks are visible.

[14:08] There are some butt cracks in here.

[14:11] The back glass has the two cyclops.

[14:13] They're grabbing, um, you know, these ladies.

[14:16] And then there's like the, the man villagers chasing after them to like save the ladies.

[14:21] Yep.

[14:22] Roger Sharp with sunglasses on.

[14:23] He's, he's, he's, he's riding into save the day.

[14:26] He's Roger Sharp is sitting on one of the horses with his fantastic mustache and sunglasses on.

[14:33] Sunglasses.

[14:34] Because that's what they would have back in the, those days.

[14:36] Of course.

[14:37] And he's trying to save Ellen, his wife.

[14:40] And we'll remember her from the art from his previous games of like sharpshooter.

[14:45] Uh, and sharpshooter too.

[14:47] I don't think she was in barracura.

[14:49] But yeah, if you look at that play field detail, you know, there's, there's like a lady who's trying to slowly escape up some stairs, which is the orbit shot.

[14:57] It's some butt crack there.

[14:59] And don't forget the side art.

[15:01] The side art.

[15:02] Like the cabinet art is.

[15:04] Oh, yes.

[15:05] Yes.

[15:06] The side art lady in a bikini crawling away.

[15:10] Secretly.

[15:11] So it's like she's hiding on the ground and sneaking away.

[15:15] That is not your traditional ballet side art, where it just says ballet or, or, or the name of the game.

[15:23] It would probably say.

[15:24] Yeah.

[15:25] But, ballet did not go all out like game plan did.

[15:29] Obviously to attract the folk that may have been in arcades in the mid eighties.

[15:36] Yeah.

[15:37] Teenage boys.

[15:38] Basically their main clientele.

[15:40] Yeah, they call them the bread and butter.

[15:42] Yep.

[15:43] But the rules are pretty cool.

[15:45] I think that this is kind of a neat, you know, mixture of things that Roger has learned, right?

[15:53] He's got some elements of barracura.

[15:56] He's got some elements of sharpshooter with like the drop targets and things like he's, he's finding his like design language, right?

[16:05] Fingerprint, if you will.

[16:06] So people talk about like John Borg or Steve Richie and you can tell those games from other types of games.

[16:12] Well, it's the same thing with Roger.

[16:14] He's got a, he's got a type, which is really, I think, cool.

[16:19] In a nutshell, what do you think?

[16:21] His best game.

[16:22] His best game.

[16:23] Yeah.

[16:24] And it's one of his smallest sellers, which is sad.

[16:27] So shortly after this, Roger fell into becoming what I will call the licensing guy.

[16:35] Right? And this is what I think some people remember Roger as, but I don't think he gets a lot of credit.

[16:40] What do you think?

[16:41] Do you think Roger gets enough credit for being the licensing guy?

[16:44] I thought that was what most people saw him as.

[16:47] That's the guy who gets your licenses.

[16:48] Right.

[16:49] So I think there's two distinctly different images of Roger.

[16:55] Right?

[16:56] There's like the your generation of pinball person who's been around since, you know, the mid 2010s,

[17:03] 2000s, right?

[17:04] That remember Roger from shows and he was the guy that worked on licensing.

[17:09] Nowadays, I think anybody who's come on sort of just just prior to the pandemic during the pandemic,

[17:15] we're much more exposed to Roger as the man who saved pinball stuff.

[17:21] Right?

[17:22] The 1970s in the courtroom thing.

[17:25] And the licensing guy stuff tends to be kind of the secondary component.

[17:31] That's why I posed the question.

[17:33] But it was in 1988 where Roger went to a toy fair.

[17:38] And the toy fair was a great place to see what was going to be hot in the upcoming years when it comes to toys or licensing.

[17:46] And it was the kind of content which may end up in like video games.

[17:51] So remember Roger's full time job is actually working at a video game magazine.

[17:57] And this is where Roger kind of stumbled into licensing.

[18:01] What was one of the first things that Roger discovered?

[18:04] Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

[18:07] Turtles in a half shell.

[18:09] Turtle Power.

[18:10] Yeah, that went well.

[18:11] Good job.

[18:12] Ninja Turtles is bounding a major campaign to see if they could get it off the ground.

[18:16] I met with a company representing the property and said, would you guys be interested if I could get a pinball company to want to do something?

[18:23] They said, sure.

[18:24] Not knowing anything about licensing at the time I thought, alright, we kind of had a connection.

[18:29] I went to Williams and said, I have access to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

[18:33] It was met with blank stairs because nobody had heard of it.

[18:36] I said, this is going to be the next big thing.

[18:39] Subsequently, Kenomi came out with the video game and Dad and East came out with the pinball.

[18:43] And the rest is history.

[18:45] Love it, right?

[18:46] So Roger goes to a toy fair.

[18:48] He's there with the video game background.

[18:51] And he's like, hey, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, that would be a great pinball machine.

[18:56] It goes over to the fellows there at the booth and was like, would you guys like to have a pinball machine?

[19:01] And they're like, yeah, that sounds like a great idea.

[19:03] And then of course, nobody wants to go with it.

[19:05] But he's discovering just kind of like building relationships, I think.

[19:09] And I've talked about this many time in this podcast.

[19:12] The building relationships is one of the most important things you can do in life.

[19:15] He's just kind of bump into these people and he's seeing opportunities, kind of by accident.

[19:20] So one day Roger, out of the blue, got a call from a guy named Marty Glasman and Ken Fidesna.

[19:27] And they asked Roger if he wanted to come to Williams as their director of marketing.

[19:32] So who was Ken Fidesna?

[19:34] He's one of the main guys at Williams.

[19:37] Yeah, he's like the big wig at Williams and he wants to bring on Roger and say, hey, Roger, can you come with me?

[19:41] And say, hey, Roger, can you help us with marketing?

[19:43] Now he isn't hired for licensing. He's hired for marketing.

[19:47] So like, as opposed to, hey, wouldn't it be great to play Ninja Turtles?

[19:52] His thing is more like, wouldn't you love to buy fun house?

[19:56] However, the marketing and licensing people often go to the same conventions.

[20:02] Now we remember that licensing was really big with Bally in the 1970s.

[20:06] That's where we got games like what?

[20:08] Playboy and...

[20:10] Tolly Parton.

[20:12] Yeah, the stunt guy.

[20:14] Evil, con evil, the stunt guy.

[20:16] Wizard, Captain Fantastic.

[20:20] The ones they didn't pay for, like, eight ball.

[20:23] Yeah, exactly.

[20:24] And even kind of in the late 70s and early 80s, it got leab, right?

[20:29] They're getting into things like Charlie's Angels, Sinbad, not the actor.

[20:34] Well, they were owned by Columbia Pictures, too.

[20:36] Exactly. But it was the turmoil in the 1980s recession in that kind of 81, 82, 83 time frame

[20:45] that was really tough on pinball and they just couldn't afford to spend that money on licensing.

[20:51] This was when Roger had heard through the grapevine as the marketing personnel at some of these conventions

[20:57] that Batman was going to get a new film in 1989.

[21:03] They had reached out to Warner Brothers and heard that Michael Keaton and Jack Nicholson had been cast.

[21:10] Now that is some serious casting.

[21:12] I'm Batman.

[21:13] You love this movie, don't you?

[21:15] Uh, yeah. He was told Batman's good.

[21:17] It's so good.

[21:18] I saw in the theater and everything because I'm old.

[21:20] It's so good. Did you get the cups?

[21:22] The McDonald's cups? Remember those?

[21:24] I remember the cups.

[21:25] I also remember watching in the theater and I couldn't see the final fight scene all because it was so dark.

[21:29] Yeah!

[21:31] We were very annoyed. Like, what the hell is going on?

[21:33] It was the right amount of great acting and like weird production.

[21:41] You know what I mean? Like it was a good mixture.

[21:43] Yeah, but before Heath Ledger had his performance, Jack Nicholson was kind of the best joker in this one.

[21:50] So good. So good.

[21:53] And, um, but what they did find out, however, was that Keaton and Nicholson had prohibitions about their characters and how they could be licensed in the merchandise.

[22:05] Basically, it meant you can't have Michael Keaton and Jack Nicholson.

[22:09] So Batman had to have his hood on.

[22:12] The Joker didn't really look like Nicholson on anything.

[22:15] It looked more like the Joker, as opposed to Jack Nicholson playing the Joker.

[22:20] So that was a bit of a non-go, I would say, with the Williams team when they said, let's do a license.

[22:26] This is a big property.

[22:28] Well, we can't get the big pieces to that pie.

[22:31] Why would we pay the licensing fee?

[22:34] Neil Nacastro, who we remember from Killing Williams fame,

[22:38] well, he didn't really believe in licensing at this time.

[22:42] And his comments were to look where it got Valley, who six months after this would be purchased by Williams licensing did not save Valley or Valley Midway.

[22:54] The years were a little, okay, so yeah, 1989 was Batman.

[22:57] So I guess he heard about it in 88, because that's when Valley Midway was purchased.

[23:02] Yeah, trying to get the timeline straight in my head.

[23:05] Of course, Batman got picked up by Daddy East anyway, because they picked up every damn license.

[23:09] Yeah, they just picked it up, Willie Nilly.

[23:11] And it turned out to be an amazing Daddy East game, didn't it?

[23:15] I mean, it sold well, but as far as an amazing game, the funny thing is, remember, police force was supposed to be Batman, but they didn't get the license.

[23:24] Yes.

[23:26] Oh, police force.

[23:27] Police force.

[23:28] It wouldn't have been very good either.

[23:30] Oh, come on, it had the Batmobile, because the car was supposed to be the Batmobile.

[23:33] And all the characters were supposed to be the different villains and stuff.

[23:37] But Roger says, I don't want to pay money and get nothing in return.

[23:41] For Daddy East, obviously, it wasn't a deal breaker not having the opportunity to be involved in any kind of crossover promotions.

[23:46] They just did it the way the industry had done it for years.

[23:49] They're going to give you the money, you're going to give us some artwork, and we're going to build a pinball machine.

[23:53] Thank you. Take care, so long.

[23:56] Yeah, so for them, it was just like a quick and dirty artwork, right?

[24:00] They didn't really so much, I think, care at a certain time in the industry what the game was.

[24:05] It was just a game with some artwork.

[24:08] And I mean, this is prior to that world under glass thing that we all talk about, right?

[24:14] Like, they had made games like Black Knight and things like that that were worlds under glass.

[24:19] But when it came to, I don't know, like, Sinbad, like that could have been any game.

[24:26] You know what I mean?

[24:27] They just put Sinbad artwork on it.

[24:30] Black Knight could have been any game.

[24:31] They had the back glass before they had the play field.

[24:34] Yeah, right, exactly.

[24:35] So that's what Roger is talking about here.

[24:37] He's not really throwing shade, Dad East's way.

[24:40] He's just saying, Williams wanted to do licensing this time around differently.

[24:45] They didn't just want to have a game, slap some artwork on it, and then throw in like a toy that sort of looked like something.

[24:52] I think Dad East would evolve kind of into the 90s, right, when you get into like Jurassic Park and games like that,

[24:58] where it's clearly designed around the theme, where you can see right now, like even back to the future,

[25:05] that they did over at Dad East.

[25:06] You can tell that that's just kind of a game that they were like, there we go.

[25:11] Perfect.

[25:12] Some artwork.

[25:13] Roger's idea, because he's just the marketing guy, it was how could we sell more machines?

[25:18] Well, he had an idea that every year, so they could do a few licenses that could be sprinkled in amongst their original themes.

[25:27] This meant that they could be very selective in choosing winning properties.

[25:32] They wanted to find those properties that wanted to be willing to work with Williams and build awareness about pinball

[25:39] and their brand together as opposed to just sort of red stamp a pinball machine.

[25:47] Do you think that that's a better method than kind of the slap on some artwork method, like where you work more hand and glove?

[25:54] I would say so, just if you have a better relationship with the licenseer to do more future properties.

[26:00] I think Tanya Klice over at Stern, let's talk like maybe George Gomez and those guys,

[26:05] they've mentioned on podcasts from time to time that like when you work with a licensor who's like excited about the property

[26:13] and excited about you making a pinball machine which represents that license property, you get a better product.

[26:22] But when you work with a licensor who is just trying to like find another way to make a thousand dollars or five thousand dollars,

[26:31] you tend to get a more lackluster product.

[26:35] Okay, all right, where do I start at the top here?

[26:43] Yes.

[26:44] Okay, becoming a pro-crony is the perfect way to say thanks and it starts at $3 of up.

[26:49] Want to get early access to episodes before everyone else?

[26:52] Have a strange love for stickers?

[26:54] Do you know what a discord is?

[26:56] Interested in having your comments and questions take priority on our episodes?

[26:59] Jump on!

[27:01] This is on twice, idiot.

[27:03] Eh boy, you can't what you paid for, I guess.

[27:06] All right, hold on.

[27:07] Jump on is $6 a month premium crony.

[27:09] Want all the other perks and a shirt after three months?

[27:12] Join us at 20 months a month as an Ellie-Letus crony.

[27:16] Wow.

[27:17] Can I have my money now?

[27:23] Uh, Led Zeppelin.

[27:25] As opposed to, as opposed to KISS.

[27:27] Yeah!

[27:28] I mean, with KISS, I still think they just made the big Gene Simmons head and showed that to him.

[27:33] And he was like, okay, whatever you want to do after that, I'm good with.

[27:37] You know, some June similes of KISS and you've made a big head with me with my tongue sticking out.

[27:41] So clearly the game is going to be awesome.

[27:43] Proceed ahead.

[27:45] All you need to do is get the artwork from the previous guy who did it in the 70s.

[27:49] And if he's dead, we'll have to just go kissonline.com slash raise the dead.

[27:54] But seriously, Gene Simmons did say in interviews, I just let those guys are the pinball people they know what they're doing.

[28:00] I just let him do.

[28:01] We just let him do what they want it.

[28:03] Yeah, where you can see it's been a bit of a slog with other things like Led Zeppelin who are really tight or, you know, even James Bond,

[28:09] one of the greatest games George Gomez has ever made, there has been more licensing struggles.

[28:13] And the game you own.

[28:15] No idea what you're talking about.

[28:17] And the premium, the best version, clearly.

[28:20] Exactly.

[28:21] The premium is the best version of that of that for sure.

[28:25] Roger was again in the marketing department.

[28:27] His job was to sell the machines.

[28:29] His job wasn't necessarily to schmooze and get licenses.

[28:34] But Rogers was kind of backing into these opportunities because you can sell more pinball machines in his opinion if you could hammer out some of those licenses.

[28:44] What was the first license that Roger landed?

[28:49] Well, Roger went to a licensing show and made some relationships.

[28:52] He made connections with companies such as Lucas Phil, which would result in the Indiana Jones pinball machine.

[28:58] Oh, well, he's clearly lining up Star Wars for his first major license.

[29:03] So Rogers' first license was actually El Vira and the party monsters.

[29:07] And Roger says, I was talking to someone who represented Cassandra Peterson.

[29:11] Nice people who said she was really into pinball.

[29:14] She was doing a lot of things back then.

[29:16] There was a movie coming out and she was going to be on the tonight show.

[29:19] They will publicize and promote the pinball machine.

[29:22] There's that hand-in-glove relationship that we wanted that we were just just talking about.

[29:27] Cassandra Peterson, who is El Vira.

[29:29] It was like this at what late night West Coast comedy show that would talk about film.

[29:37] Right? There would be these old cheesy films.

[29:39] And then between the commercials and the film, there would be gags with Cassandra Peterson as El Vira.

[29:46] Isn't that how that worked?

[29:47] That's how that worked.

[29:48] Yeah, and they had silly characters.

[29:50] And it was like a weekly thing.

[29:52] But she was becoming like this pop culture icon around that time.

[29:57] She was funny. She didn't take herself too serious.

[30:02] But she was willing to promote the pinball machine and work with Williams.

[30:07] She just didn't want to put her artwork on the machine. That is exciting.

[30:11] What could a licensor, so a Cassandra Peterson, what could they give Williams?

[30:15] What is Williams getting out of this?

[30:17] Red carpet, celebrities, branding promotions.

[30:20] Yeah, you get to like, you know, they used to talk about going to releases of the films

[30:27] and having pinball machines in the lobby or being on a late night show and having it in the background.

[30:33] You know, that's cool stuff. Like it's pop culture, it's exciting. It's different.

[30:38] But what could Williams give the licensor?

[30:40] That seems like Williams is getting a lot of the opportunities there.

[30:43] Well, Roger says, I could deliver numbers anywhere from 10, 15, or 20,000 units and get them visibility.

[30:51] Cross promotions, whether it's being involved in Broadway, Cares, Fights Aids,

[30:55] where we provide a pinball machines in New York City for Pete Townsend and others that were doing a benefit.

[31:00] Again, the local rock radio station with celebrities tied to pinball machines and people doing pledges and so on.

[31:06] Yeah, it was like we could give you a bunch of these machines and you could auction them off.

[31:12] You can give them away. You know, it's exciting for these fundraisers,

[31:16] but we can also have them just visibly in the background everywhere because you're selling 10 or 15,000 units.

[31:23] You know, people go to the movie theater to see the movie and they're like,

[31:27] wow, look, there's a pinball machine of the movie we're about to see.

[31:31] Top of mind stuff. So I think it's a win-win.

[31:35] From 1985 to 1999, this is where we get into this serious Williams electronics era of licensing.

[31:44] This is like we're getting into some big deal stuff.

[31:47] The first game with a license was a ballet under the new sort of ballet Williams umbrella,

[31:55] right after Williams had purchased a ballet midway.

[31:59] What was the first Williams license that Roger was able to nail down?

[32:04] Rock, rock, rock and roll their games. Rock, rock, rock and roll their games.

[32:10] Yeah, the smash hit license of roller games.

[32:13] Roller games was very popular for like a year.

[32:17] Yeah, well, to be fair, the company that made the show went bankrupt.

[32:22] That was the issue. It wasn't because the ratings were bad.

[32:26] Oh, very good. I think we spoke about that.

[32:28] Yeah, that was on our Steve Richie episode.

[32:31] Go and check that one out in the archives.

[32:33] Because he had a choice. They could have done roller games or American gladiators.

[32:37] And they picked the wrong one.

[32:40] But Roger says, Roller games. Well, that was my thing because the American gladiators are roller games.

[32:46] Which one? Well, roller games like roller derby.

[32:49] I remember that growing up. That's going to be huge.

[32:51] It's going to be like professional wrestling.

[32:53] And there's girls and there's guys and there's costumes and teams.

[32:56] Let's do it. We got Steve into it.

[32:58] And you know, unfortunately, it was a good game.

[33:01] But the license did not help us in any way, shape or form.

[33:04] So we're kind of off to a bit of a stumble.

[33:06] Right? Like Roger is like, oh, we got to do licensing.

[33:09] We got to bring them in. Hand in glove. Collaboration.

[33:12] You know, promotion and they do Elvira, which went probably better than expected.

[33:16] And then they bring in roller games and it's like, uh,

[33:18] And I do believe Roger was into pro wrestling.

[33:21] Because I remember at least one story where he mentioned how he was sitting there in the living room watching pro wrestling from Florida.

[33:27] Wow. It's a Roger, Roger sharps a brother.

[33:29] So, so I'm thinking a roller games is basically pro wrestling, but roller skates.

[33:35] So that's probably why he'd like that license.

[33:38] Very yet. Pro wrestling on roller skates.

[33:40] Sounds amazing. Pretty much what it is.

[33:43] Yeah, but what it ended up being is a coffin on roller skates.

[33:46] Oh, well, it does have the wall of death.

[33:49] Yeah.

[33:50] Well, how about the other amazing themes that he was able to hammer down? Huh?

[33:57] Bugs Bunny. Bugs Bunny, that's a big theme.

[34:00] Despite what you think of the game, Bugs Bunny's birthday ball.

[34:04] Harley Davidson.

[34:06] Yes. Gilligan's Island.

[34:08] And despite what you think of the game, actually Gilligan's Island might have been a little dated by that time.

[34:13] Yeah, that was like that weird resurgence part of the last two are huge though.

[34:18] Yeah, Terminator 2 and Adam's family.

[34:21] Yeah, Adam's family is just what a stellar stellar game and Terminator 2.

[34:26] Terminator 2. What didn't make money with that?

[34:29] Soundtrack made money, movie made money, the video game with the gun made money, the pinball machine made money.

[34:35] Everything made money.

[34:36] Christian Bale is even made money on Terminator because of the success of Terminator 2.

[34:41] You know what I mean? Like he got a movie in the 2000s that was terrible because Terminator 2 was so good.

[34:47] Oh, what was he? Terminator 4?

[34:49] Someone he was in?

[34:50] Yeah, I think so.

[34:51] Is that the one where he goes off on the lighting guy that clip that made its way around?

[34:56] Yeah. Yeah. That is the one.

[34:57] Yeah, exactly. Where they're in the future?

[34:59] They're in the future.

[35:01] They're like in the future. It's not just like present day.

[35:03] Oh, man, what a terrible.

[35:04] But that's how good that was. But what about some of the awesome ones that they passed on?

[35:08] Oh, some of these hurt me, especially the second one.

[35:12] Universal soldier.

[35:13] Yeah, which was a good one.

[35:15] Who was in that?

[35:16] A Van Dam?

[35:17] Oh, okay. Oh, man.

[35:19] Oh, a Van Dam.

[35:20] You could have had a movie bummer.

[35:21] A Highlander.

[35:22] Oh, I've never seen that.

[35:25] Oh, they failed on that one. They could have had a Highlander.

[35:28] Just think of the decapitation you could have had.

[35:30] Decapitation mech.

[35:31] Decapitation multi-ball.

[35:33] Oh, my God. That would have been awesome.

[35:35] You already have there can be only one. That's the Wizard Mode.

[35:38] You have to be the last one.

[35:39] Yeah.

[35:40] Oh, that would be so good.

[35:41] Jurassic Park, which we know ended up at Daddy East.

[35:44] And total recall, which ended up at Daddy East, but they end up not making it.

[35:48] I recently watched Total Recall.

[35:51] And I've discovered that.

[35:53] That's awesome.

[35:54] Get your ass to boss.

[35:56] Get your ass to boss with great lines like, but honey, we're married.

[36:01] Consider that the divorce.

[36:03] I mean, come on.

[36:04] Oh, man.

[36:05] Come on.

[36:06] So what was the director of that Van Hoven?

[36:08] The guy who did basic instinct and show girls and...

[36:12] Yeah. Paul Van Hoven.

[36:14] Paul Vera Vera Hoven.

[36:15] Yeah, Dutch guy.

[36:16] Yeah.

[36:17] Terrible. He did Robocop, which was awesome.

[36:20] God love Robocop.

[36:22] But then it just, he just rode that craziness for too long.

[36:26] Oh, come on.

[36:27] He did Starship Troopers.

[36:28] Yeah.

[36:29] Yeah.

[36:30] It's so bad.

[36:31] Come on.

[36:32] It's worse now than I remember it.

[36:33] Oh.

[36:34] Yeah.

[36:35] We'll agree to disagree on that one.

[36:37] And the game's not bad either.

[36:39] But then there's Adam's family.

[36:41] When they launch this movie, I remember thinking, oh, man, that's cool, right?

[36:47] Because I used to watch a lot of old sitcoms for some reason.

[36:52] Like Get Smart, The Adam's Family, like Lassie, all that black and white stuff.

[36:56] I don't get it.

[36:57] Lassie was a sitcom.

[36:58] That was a comedy.

[36:59] It wasn't it.

[37:00] Not a sitcom, I guess, but it was like, hey, look, Lassie took a dump again.

[37:07] Yeah, I don't think so.

[37:08] So my mother watches TV on a 20 year delay.

[37:11] At present day, she's watching films from 10 or 20 years ago, or she's watching TV from

[37:17] 10 or 20 years ago.

[37:19] So in the 1980s, when I was a child, she was watching shows from the previous like

[37:24] 1960s era.

[37:26] So for some reason, I watched a lot of those shows.

[37:29] And then by the time we get to like the mid 2000s, she's watching like shows from the mid

[37:34] 2000s from the mid 90s.

[37:36] It's very weird.

[37:37] Very weird.

[37:38] I don't know what she's watching now.

[37:40] It's probably like home renovation shows on HGTV or something.

[37:44] She's retired now.

[37:46] Adam's family was one of those ones where I'm like, oh, I love Adam's family.

[37:49] And I love the monsters.

[37:50] I was like, oh, I wish they made a monster's movie.

[37:54] But they made the Adam's Family film.

[37:56] And I went to see that film in the theater.

[37:57] And it was awesome.

[37:59] Did you see that?

[38:00] Never seen the movie.

[38:01] You didn't see the original Adam's family movie in the 90s?

[38:04] It's really good.

[38:05] The acting is phenomenal.

[38:07] Right?

[38:08] Who is the guy that did Gomez?

[38:09] Raul Julia.

[38:10] Raul Julia.

[38:11] I just remember he was an overdrawn at the Memory Bank, which was like a PBS movie that

[38:16] they made fun of on Mystery Science Theater.

[38:18] Yeah.

[38:19] Christopher Lloyd, his uncle faster.

[38:20] Yeah.

[38:21] He was brilliant and a jealous a Houston.

[38:25] It was such a good.

[38:27] It was so well cast.

[38:28] It was son.

[38:29] And the second one I thought was also kind of fun, but it wasn't quite the same excitement.

[38:33] Adam's family values.

[38:35] Yeah, which was good, but it wasn't.

[38:37] It was a Christy, Christina Richie.

[38:40] She killed her.

[38:41] Christina Richie.

[38:42] Yes.

[38:43] Yeah.

[38:44] She killed it.

[38:45] She's still going.

[38:46] So it was, it was really T2 and Adam's family that opened the floodgates, right?

[38:50] It was like, all of a sudden it was like, oh my god.

[38:53] Now we have licenses.

[38:55] We have sold so many of these units.

[38:57] So now we got Dr. Who, creature from the Black Lagoon Twilight Zone, Judge Dredd based

[39:02] on the comic book, not the movie, Bram Stoker's Dracula, Indiana Jones, the pinball adventures.

[39:08] Star Trek, the next generation, Demoman, Indianapolis 500, Judge Dredd, oh, you put that twice.

[39:14] World Cup soccer.

[39:15] It's so good.

[39:16] Corvette, the Flintstones, Dirty Harry, Popeye, no fear.

[39:21] Yes, no fear is actually a license.

[39:22] It was like holding line, something like that.

[39:24] Yeah.

[39:25] Shiny Numanic, NBA, Fest Break, Scared Stiff and Congo.

[39:30] So when we go through this list, what happens when you start on the first line and then

[39:35] by the time you get to the second line of these themes?

[39:38] Oh, they're selling less.

[39:40] And they start getting a lot worse.

[39:42] Oh, come on.

[39:43] Come on.

[39:44] Dr. Who, Twilight Zone, Indiana Jones, Star Trek.

[39:48] And then, Johnny Numanic, no fear and Congo.

[39:54] Like as the years progressed, the quality of the theme I think started to go down.

[40:01] Star Wars would like to have a talk with you.

[40:05] Star Wars.

[40:06] Yeah.

[40:07] Pinball 2000.

[40:08] Star Wars.

[40:09] I mean, come on.

[40:10] Yeah, that's humongous.

[40:11] I got you on that one.

[40:12] But they had that was like the last kick at the can and we all know that that went really

[40:16] well.

[40:17] And it was like you could tell that I think Price had to have something to do here, right?

[40:22] I mean, I'm saying that, but at the same time, like Corvette, which is a decent theme, that

[40:27] was a specific request from George Gomez.

[40:30] He wanted to do Corvette.

[40:31] And the thing is, everyone's doing licenses at this point.

[40:34] Yeah.

[40:35] I mean, in fact, that of east, of course, because they did a more than anyone else, even

[40:40] got lead with Stargate, you know, in a shack attack.

[40:46] And there's a lot more competition.

[40:48] Frank Thomas.

[40:49] I mean, barbed wire.

[40:51] Barbed wire.

[40:52] And they're the game that was going to be after barbed wire.

[40:54] Broke's done.

[40:55] They're taking all the good themes away from the other companies.

[40:59] But you can see there's more competition, right?

[41:02] More competition, you know, more fighting there.

[41:05] But we're also getting out of like the 90s, we're filled with all of these, like really

[41:10] cool over the top action films.

[41:13] Yeah.

[41:14] Before it all went downhill.

[41:16] Give me the 90s back.

[41:17] So there's a lot less of that in the late 90s.

[41:20] But the theme in here at this time is some of the best.

[41:23] Who you do have Matrix?

[41:25] Like 99 I think.

[41:26] Yeah, that's true.

[41:27] That's true.

[41:28] Let's kind of go back mid 90s, right?

[41:30] So let's not get to 2000 just yet.

[41:32] Roger was also working with the IFPA, which is the International Flipper Pinball Association.

[41:39] So we spoke about this in brief during our original Roger Sharp episode that was last

[41:45] month.

[41:46] We're talking about IFPA basically being dormant for years and years and years and not running

[41:51] any tournaments and events prior to 1995.

[41:54] Prior?

[41:55] You mean post 1995?

[41:57] Uh, yes, that's right.

[41:59] Uh, I assume that the AMOA, of course, stood for Amusement and Music Operators Association.

[42:06] And they back in the 80s worked with Roger to develop a, you know, a league-like system.

[42:14] They had been seeing a decline in the arcades through the 90s.

[42:19] And they didn't really see any value in spending and promoting pinball as they had prior to

[42:25] 1995.

[42:27] They just saw that the industry had peaked and now the declines were beginning.

[42:32] You know, they had been running sporadic tournaments kind of through the late 80s into the 90s.

[42:37] And Roger was involved in that with Steve Epstein.

[42:43] But that was all kind of going away.

[42:45] But then there was the death of licensing, right, between like 96 and 99.

[42:49] There's some pretty lean years in there, you know?

[42:52] Yeah, he had Star Wars.

[42:56] But that was at the end, right?

[42:57] That was the kickoff at pinball 2000.

[42:59] Like you've got, so you start getting like attack from Mars.

[43:03] You start getting Medieval Madness, although phenomenal, amazing games and in our,

[43:08] in our member berries that we remember, they are fantastic games.

[43:13] But those were like kind of the lean years of licensing, right?

[43:17] We're getting into more of that stuff.

[43:18] Well, it Williams.

[43:20] Exactly.

[43:21] Daddy Eastlasega, they kept going with licenses.

[43:23] They're getting into like, uh...

[43:25] Starship Troopers.

[43:26] Yeah.

[43:27] About a promise.

[43:28] That's the prequel to Twister's, right?

[43:31] Ah, yes, there's another Twister movie.

[43:35] That's...

[43:36] Yeah.

[43:37] It's another coming attraction I saw.

[43:39] Where I'm like, is this Twister?

[43:41] No, it's Twister's.

[43:43] I bet you there's going to be a climate change story.

[43:45] Oh, God.

[43:46] Okay.

[43:47] Pinball 2000.

[43:48] You know what Roger says about that?

[43:51] He says, I was in fact the first person that they showed it to.

[43:54] I thought it was great.

[43:56] I got it immediately.

[43:57] Hollow pin could work.

[43:59] I was like, wow, okay, I can see it.

[44:01] You can take out a pinball 2000, put it on location, Tay and I guarantee that the average

[44:05] person would be like, wow, that's new.

[44:08] Well, no, it's not.

[44:10] Yeah, remember, we had a whole episode on pinball 2000.

[44:15] We did?

[44:16] Wow, we've had a lot of episodes.

[44:18] Back in the archive.

[44:20] That was a great episode, right?

[44:21] It was like they were...

[44:22] They had this...

[44:24] This brilliant gold of an idea.

[44:26] They are cool.

[44:28] It's cool.

[44:29] I think it's overrated.

[44:30] I think if they allowed it to go further, the stuff they could have done with it.

[44:35] Yeah.

[44:36] What if you wear one of those stupid Apple things?

[44:39] I know nothing of Apple.

[44:41] You know, the goggles, the goofy goggle thing with the spatial computing crap.

[44:47] I bet you if you wore that over a regular pinball machine, it would be cool.

[44:51] But we've had to wait like 30 years for that.

[44:55] This is where we get into the death of Williams.

[44:58] Or williams.

[44:59] I thought I corrected all your miscellaneous.

[45:02] You had at least 10 of these that were spelled wrong.

[45:07] It's quality is not my focus here.

[45:10] It's quantity.

[45:11] What?

[45:12] But we can see when we look at this, like this is where the hollow pin, you know, the

[45:17] idea of pinball 2000 and sort of that spiral kind of around the toilet bowl that would

[45:22] become Williams.

[45:24] And Williams wasn't allowed to move forward with conventional slot machines.

[45:29] All the effort and manpower went into developing a different kind of slot machine.

[45:35] And those were like video slot machines.

[45:38] So because they had to get around patents and a bunch of other things, Williams had to

[45:42] spend R&D money that they would normally spend in the pinball division.

[45:48] And they moved that money over into their slot business.

[45:52] This was all spoke about about the death of Williams and her pinball is dying episode,

[45:57] as well as the hollow pin episode millennium moment back in the archives.

[46:03] This is where they made the stellar games for slot machines in casinos called real men

[46:10] and jackpot party.

[46:11] You remember those?

[46:13] Not really, but I have seen a lot of the Williams, the video slots and they are top notch.

[46:19] It's all of your top tier pinball talent making them.

[46:26] So they looked way better than with the other company.

[46:29] Oh, what was the other company?

[46:31] The ones that did everything else.

[46:33] I'm trying to remember what they were called.

[46:35] Western Digital?

[46:36] No, no, no, no.

[46:37] I'll know it if I hear it.

[46:40] But they had almost a whole market share of everything.

[46:44] Yeah.

[46:45] But these video slot machines, because you've learned all of this stuff in gaming through

[46:53] pinball with all these brilliant minds and all this licensing idea and all it like you've

[47:00] brought all that smarts and you've moved it into the gaming division or the slot gaming

[47:05] division, you immediately set a new standard and Williams jumped in with a 30% market share,

[47:12] which from zero to 30% is a ridiculous amount of market share.

[47:17] However, because of this, WMS or the slot machine division really started to starve out

[47:24] Williams.

[47:25] You know, gaming is not making shareholders money.

[47:30] And inevitably that was the sort of the straw that broke the camel's back.

[47:35] Pinball is not making a money.

[47:37] Gaming is definitely making the money.

[47:38] Yeah.

[47:39] Just slots versus traditional, you know, video games and stuff.

[47:44] And Roger says, I think if you asked Neil and the Castro today, one of the things he would

[47:48] say to you is that he probably made a mistake pulling the plug when he did.

[47:52] Neil really had his heart out there.

[47:55] That's what he grew up around.

[47:56] I think the issue became one of, you have a publicly traded stock that is in the leisure

[48:01] time entertainment industry.

[48:02] You have ups and downs and the ups and downs radically altered stock price and expectations.

[48:09] Yeah, this is something we spoke about, I think in our Columbia, Gottlieb episode, this

[48:15] is something we've talked is is corporately owned pinball, right?

[48:19] So the object of a corporation is to make money for its shareholders, right?

[48:26] That is its primary objective.

[48:29] And you know, whatever you want to talk about late stage capitalism or whatever, you know,

[48:34] the idea is if I'm investing in a company, it should be making money.

[48:38] And if the leadership team of that company, so in this example, Neil and the Castro,

[48:44] if he's not doing everything in his power to make more money for the shareholders, he

[48:49] is not doing his duty.

[48:52] And he is actually in conflict to what his expectations should be as a leader.

[48:58] So he's actually legally on the line.

[49:01] If he's not able to make decisions in the company that will make the shareholders more

[49:08] friendly, this brings us into a whole other kind of conversation.

[49:11] And Roger gets into this conversation just briefly in the episode of Topcast, which

[49:18] is in the show notes.

[49:20] And he spoke about publicly owned pinball privately owned means that it's a company of individual

[49:28] shareholders like if you and I started a pinball machine company and you know what, if it

[49:33] doesn't make money or it makes only a little bit of money, that's no big deal because you

[49:36] and I own the company maple syrup pinball.

[49:39] Exactly.

[49:40] Mm, sticky flipper buttons.

[49:43] At least they're not sharp like home pinball.

[49:45] Poutine pinball publicly owned company has all of these shareholder requirements.

[49:50] And this is where I pulled I think probably one of the coolest quotes that I have ever heard

[49:55] Roger say.

[49:56] He says, I think you need to be a privately held company.

[50:00] You can't be public.

[50:01] You're going to have your up and down quarters.

[50:04] That's why Stern is able to survive.

[50:06] If you ever took the company public, they would be screwed.

[50:09] They would be over in a matter of two to three years max before the shareholders would

[50:13] say, Hey, time's up.

[50:14] Sorry.

[50:15] That's the nature of the beast.

[50:17] Roger is clearly saying here that a publicly shareholder driven example of pinball will

[50:26] not survive because the way the entertainment industry around coin op works is you've got

[50:32] boom and you've got bust types of scenarios.

[50:37] And it's been repeated over and over and over again.

[50:39] So if you go back to our, you know, when we spoke about the 1930s and 40s and we spoke

[50:45] about the 70s, the boom in the 70s and the bust in the 80s and the boom in the 90s and

[50:50] the bust in the 2000s.

[50:52] And now we're going through another boom period.

[50:55] Shareholders aren't going to put up with that.

[50:57] They're going to say, you know what, if we just sell everything to some other company,

[51:01] we can at least make some money as opposed to sitting around for three years waiting for

[51:05] the economy to rebound.

[51:06] Yeah, nothing like 10 correct companies that are around doing pinball.

[51:10] I think they're all private.

[51:12] Every one of them is private.

[51:13] They all have big billionaire backers in one way or another.

[51:17] Well, 100 million.

[51:18] Not all of them, but yes.

[51:19] So for them, it becomes a different thing, right?

[51:22] So for example, let's say a company like JGP doesn't make any money, right?

[51:28] Let's say that they are constantly running into deficit.

[51:32] Well, the public would say, well, we got to sell this off to Stern and at least get some

[51:37] return of our money here.

[51:40] Or on a private base, they might say, well, you know what, this is my company and I can

[51:44] take this capital loss and I can move it to another part of my portfolio, if you will,

[51:50] and offset a capital gain somewhere else.

[51:52] Right?

[51:53] Just like some shenanigans that you can play with tax codes and things like that if you're

[51:59] a privately owned company.

[52:01] But what did Roger do after Williams?

[52:04] So Williams is kind of gone?

[52:06] Well, gone is a pinball entity.

[52:09] WMS industries is around as a slot machine making industry.

[52:14] Right.

[52:15] So he stuck around.

[52:16] He did licensing for the slot machine division, right?

[52:19] Again, you take those relationships that he's built.

[52:21] You take the intelligence that he's developed over years and years and years and he's working

[52:26] in that slot machine division.

[52:27] Well, he also left and he did some consulting.

[52:30] So he kind of went off and did his own thing and he was working with companies to do their

[52:34] licensing and their product design and development.

[52:38] He developed, he worked in advertising and marketing.

[52:41] He worked in promotion.

[52:42] Roger is a social person.

[52:44] He's like electric.

[52:46] You just love to talk to him.

[52:47] He just tells great stories.

[52:49] He's a friendly person.

[52:50] He just oozes salesperson.

[52:54] And as a salesperson myself, the more that you can just be a dude and not sell anything,

[53:00] the more you can sell.

[53:01] You know what I mean?

[53:02] And Roger is a wonderful person.

[53:06] But he also went on to make probably one of the greatest themes of all time.

[53:10] Hey, pinheads.

[53:11] I just wanted to let you know that when I'm not making cheesy jokes to make Ron laugh,

[53:16] I'm David, the financial advice guy.

[53:19] At Dennis Financial, our advisors strive to provide a return on life for our clients,

[53:24] not just a return on investment.

[53:26] The value of advice is something that we take seriously.

[53:29] A valuable financial advisor doesn't just provide investment and insurance advice.

[53:34] That's because an advisor takes the time to gather intimate knowledge about their primary

[53:38] client, understand their personal preferences, recognize their fears and hopes, and gain

[53:43] knowledge about their client's errors before providing financial advice.

[53:48] If you're looking for a more human dimension to your financial advice, Dennis Financial

[53:52] Inc. has you covered with advisors licensed in most Canadian provinces.

[53:56] We're also doing secure online meetings to engage with clients who need advice, but don't

[54:01] necessarily want to wear pants or leave their house.

[54:04] Contact me via email at David at DennisFinancial.net for a free rate loan and a copy of our

[54:10] value of advice ebook or check out DennisFinancial.ca.

[54:15] The Muppets Haunted House Adventure.

[54:24] That was by Bromley Incorporated.

[54:26] Ah Bromley.

[54:27] God, the Bromley I know, they've been around forever.

[54:29] They did the golf game with a guy, it's like a pitch and bat, but with a golfer.

[54:36] Yeah, exactly.

[54:37] And they're really like a novelty game designer people.

[54:41] They did more of the kitty gambling stuff, unless of the gaming stuff.

[54:46] This is a ticket dispensing game, and it could kind of be set up in three different ways.

[54:51] A couple of different ways.

[54:52] So, one of them is a three ball pinball game, and then the more points you get, the more

[54:56] tickets you get, then it's kind of also, it's more like a bingo game, right?

[55:01] Like it has these holes that the pinball drops through.

[55:06] And then that has a number on it, and then it will dispense that amount of tickets based

[55:10] on that.

[55:11] So, there's a couple of different bits and pieces there, but there's some awesome pictures

[55:15] in our show notes of this pinball machine.

[55:18] And it has some amazing art.

[55:19] It's like...

[55:20] He made the art done by Paul Ferris.

[55:22] Is that something that I heard?

[55:23] Yeah.

[55:24] Everybody remembers Paul Ferris, right?

[55:25] He did...

[55:26] He did tons of valley stuff.

[55:29] Paragon.

[55:30] That's the one I was looking for.

[55:31] Yes.

[55:32] That's the one I would always bring up first.

[55:34] Beautiful.

[55:35] Like, so fun.

[55:36] And it's so fun, because it's like a haunted mansion kind of thing going on.

[55:41] And it's like that Frankenstein, Frankenstein's bride.

[55:46] It's so cute.

[55:47] And then in fact, Roger is hiding in the artwork in the back, behind the castle, kind

[55:54] of in the rocks around the steps.

[55:57] He's very tiny back there.

[56:00] So much fun.

[56:01] It's a great theme.

[56:04] The Muppets is a great theme.

[56:05] I can't believe Stern has not made a Muppets pinball machine.

[56:09] I would have my money in on that.

[56:11] So fast.

[56:13] Roger also, while he was doing this, was consulting with Stern.

[56:17] And Roger says, I've had a long, long friendship and relationship with Gary and previously

[56:22] his dad.

[56:23] I helped a little bit on Terminator 3, NASCAR, and Pirates of the Caribbean.

[56:28] I'm there when possible.

[56:29] But I've also worked with Eugene Jarvis and his crew at Raw thrills for Fast and Furious.

[56:34] Yeah.

[56:35] So, so he, Roger's kind of doing his own thing.

[56:37] Yeah.

[56:38] He gets to work with who he gets to work with.

[56:39] He gets to choose his clients.

[56:42] He gets to swing in, which is really Roger's M.O.

[56:44] Right?

[56:45] Even way back during his journalism days, I think he really enjoys his freedom.

[56:51] Right?

[56:52] Being able to choose who he's working with, where he's coming from, constantly learning,

[56:56] being dynamic.

[56:57] And there are some amazing themes in there.

[56:59] That Pirates of the Caribbean was stunningly huge when those films were coming.

[57:04] They made a lot of those.

[57:06] That was one of Stern's bigger sellers back in the day.

[57:08] And it's, you know, it's a bit clunky, but it's still fun.

[57:11] It's different.

[57:12] And that's a ship that sinks.

[57:13] Come on.

[57:14] Come on.

[57:15] Come on.

[57:16] If it had an orbit shot, it would have been, it would have been perfect.

[57:18] Anyway, we get into that in one of our other episodes, our Nordman episode, I recall.

[57:22] But this is where we get into the rebirth of the IFPA.

[57:26] On February the 27th of 2006, Roger Sharp's son Josh Sharp, my second favorite sharp,

[57:35] he actually went with Roger and formed an LLC, which I guess in the United States is

[57:40] like a corporation or a company.

[57:41] And they purchased the rights to the IFPA from the previous owners.

[57:46] A committee was formed and a new structure was developed.

[57:51] This structure in fact continues to today where they even developed a player ranking system,

[57:58] which changes slightly every year.

[58:01] And that is the creation of the WAPER.

[58:03] That's right.

[58:04] That's the committee that was formed.

[58:05] The committee is Josh Sharp is the king basically.

[58:08] The WAPER is a world pinball player ranking point.

[58:12] Yeah.

[58:13] WPPR.

[58:14] WAPER points.

[58:15] WAPERS.

[58:16] And according to the IFPA website, it says the IFPA has created the world pinball player

[58:20] rankings.

[58:21] WAPER.

[58:22] To establish the first official ranking system of pinball players throughout the world.

[58:28] Through these endorsed tournaments and leagues, the IFPA crowns the world's greatest pinball

[58:33] player at the end of each calendar year and organizes championships at state, national

[58:39] and international levels.

[58:42] IFPA endorsed tournaments will give players a chance to increase their WAPER rankings.

[58:47] So this is like we're drawing a direct line from that original AMOA kind of promotional

[58:55] device.

[58:57] Also Papa and the IFPA, all of these kind of bits and pieces that kind of went dormant

[59:03] during the downward spiral from about 95, let's call it.

[59:08] 2006, we're bringing it back, baby.

[59:11] We're bringing it back better than ever.

[59:14] But what about the other key piece in there?

[59:16] That was Steve Epstein.

[59:17] He was another one of those individuals that was super important to tournament pinball.

[59:24] Well, he ran the Broadway arcade, right in Manhattan.

[59:27] New York City.

[59:29] New York City, where you wear your tie to go into town, right?

[59:33] When you go to New York City, you'd put your tie into the dog.

[59:35] Sure.

[59:36] Yeah.

[59:37] Well, the Broadway arcade, it was an institution, right?

[59:41] It was a big deal.

[59:42] Well, it would close in the early 2000s during a landlord dispute over a series of violent

[59:48] events, which happened in the same building, but not necessarily the arcade.

[59:55] But because of that, there were some significant changes with the landlord.

[01:00:00] Steve would later return to arcades with modern pinball in Manhattan on 3rd Avenue around

[01:00:06] 26th.

[01:00:07] East 26th Street.

[01:00:09] Exactly.

[01:00:10] And I had been to modern pinball.

[01:00:12] Oh, really?

[01:00:13] I was there once also.

[01:00:14] I was there and I was thoroughly impressed.

[01:00:17] The tactic wasn't an arcade.

[01:00:19] They skirted rules there.

[01:00:21] It was a showroom where you could buy the games.

[01:00:24] All the games that were there were available for sale.

[01:00:26] Yeah.

[01:00:27] I believe that way they could get away with, they charged a fee to get in.

[01:00:31] I believe you didn't have to pay for machines.

[01:00:33] That's correct.

[01:00:34] And they didn't have to pay per machine or whatever.

[01:00:36] Yeah, it was like a flat entry.

[01:00:38] They skirted around stuff by doing it that way.

[01:00:41] And it was co-owned by Steve Epstein and Steve Zoller.

[01:00:44] By the time I was there, it was 2019, I believe.

[01:00:49] And that was kind of when Steve Epstein was out of the picture.

[01:00:53] Yeah, he sold his share at a Steve's Aller.

[01:00:55] It would eventually close due to the 2020 pandemic, which we don't talk about anymore.

[01:01:01] But it was sad to see that go.

[01:01:03] I still have my modern pinball t-shirt, actually.

[01:01:06] I still have a...

[01:01:09] I got a...

[01:01:10] What is it?

[01:01:11] Free play for a day.

[01:01:12] Thank you for modern somewhere.

[01:01:15] Nice.

[01:01:16] Yeah.

[01:01:17] Nice.

[01:01:18] It's like my $100 gift card to the silver ball suit.

[01:01:19] I got an tournament somewhere.

[01:01:21] And it's like, yeah, I'm probably never going to make it there, but sure.

[01:01:24] Yeah, you don't go to the New York City.

[01:01:26] I don't go to New York City.

[01:01:27] I don't want to deal with those people.

[01:01:28] You got to wear your Sunday best to go down to the city.

[01:01:31] I don't get it.

[01:01:32] I don't get to celebrate that.

[01:01:34] Now, unfortunately, Steve would pass away in 2020 with a battle...

[01:01:41] a battle with cancer.

[01:01:44] I think Steve got a lot of credit throughout his career, but I don't think he got enough

[01:01:50] credit throughout his career about all of the things that he added, the cultural influence

[01:01:55] and touch that Steve had.

[01:01:58] Not just with tournament pinball, but imagine all of the people that went to the Broadway

[01:02:03] arcade through the 80s and the 90s who are still excited about the hobby today.

[01:02:10] His cultural influence not only to pinball, but to Americana in general, I think is a big

[01:02:17] deal and something that Steve and his family should be happy and proud about.

[01:02:22] Now have you met Steve Epstein before he had passed?

[01:02:25] Oh, yeah, many times.

[01:02:27] What was he like?

[01:02:28] He just outgoing, dude.

[01:02:30] He was definitely Roger Scherf-

[01:02:32] Yes, he was definitely Roger Scherf-

[01:02:33] Yes.

[01:02:34] The charismatic and exciting and legitimately happy about...

[01:02:37] Yeah, I want a couple of his tournaments.

[01:02:39] He ran a tournament at...

[01:02:42] What is it called?

[01:02:43] One in Asbury Park, the Silver Ball Museum.

[01:02:48] Cool.

[01:02:49] And another one at...

[01:02:50] I'm trying to think of all these games.

[01:02:51] The Morristown Game Vault.

[01:02:53] I think he ran a tournament there that I played in.

[01:02:55] Yeah, I think I got those right.

[01:02:57] He just loved evangelizing pinball.

[01:03:01] And I want to give a nice tip of the hat to Steve Epstein.

[01:03:05] And I know it being involved in the Roger Scherf episode is just one extra little...

[01:03:11] Little sprinkle, little cherry on top of this already phenomenal life and career of Roger

[01:03:19] Scherf.

[01:03:20] But Roger didn't stop at all.

[01:03:23] He kept on plugging away.

[01:03:25] One of those things was helping a company called Dutch people with the Big Lebowski.

[01:03:30] Do you remember that?

[01:03:32] Yeah, I remember.

[01:03:33] They got the license for the Big Lebowski and they brought it to Expo.

[01:03:36] And I remember seeing it and had all this...

[01:03:40] This music in it, I was thinking, wow, they got the licensing for all this music.

[01:03:44] Well, no, they didn't actually do it all.

[01:03:49] All the artwork?

[01:03:51] Well, that too.

[01:03:52] So they misunderstood what they actually brought the license.

[01:03:55] Yeah, I think there's some misunderstanding there because I was like, wow, they got all these songs

[01:04:00] and the license for the movie, this is impressive.

[01:04:03] Well, they didn't.

[01:04:04] Yeah, so they got a cease and desist from a few of them, which basically said,

[01:04:08] you haven't paid for any of this.

[01:04:09] But Roger Scherf was basically brought in as the fixer.

[01:04:12] Please help us fix this.

[01:04:14] In a nutshell, they get the license to make Big Lebowski from, what is it, Fox?

[01:04:19] And they get ready to make that and they put the pinball machine together,

[01:04:22] which by the way is a pretty cool pinball machine.

[01:04:25] They get it all together and they're super excited.

[01:04:27] And then all of a sudden, it's like, no, no, no, you didn't pay for a bunch of

[01:04:30] this stuff, right?

[01:04:31] You bought the movie.

[01:04:32] You didn't buy this stuff.

[01:04:34] Well, in 2015, Dutch released its newsletter.

[01:04:37] We are very happy to announce that with the tremendous help of Roger Scherf,

[01:04:41] we now have the approvals for all the artwork.

[01:04:45] We are very proud to present you the final play field of the Big Lebowski pinball.

[01:04:49] What do they mean?

[01:04:51] All the approvals on the pinball machine artwork.

[01:04:54] Well, Dutch had a read, had released its original artwork prototype.

[01:04:59] And it was traveling around to a lot of these licensing shows and pinball shows and stuff.

[01:05:05] But they had to make some changes because there were a few things in the artwork

[01:05:10] that were not approved by Universal Studios licensing.

[01:05:13] So it wasn't Fox, it was Universal.

[01:05:15] For example, the use of a cannabis leaf, a gun appearing next to John Goodman,

[01:05:22] the use of the brand name Kaluah as an ingredient for the right Russian cocktail,

[01:05:26] which is like a coffee look here that's used in white Russians.

[01:05:31] Yeah, not right Russians, the white Russians.

[01:05:33] Right, right, right.

[01:05:35] Yeah, but I was there at the time and yeah, they had this at Expo.

[01:05:42] There was no way they had licensing for a lot of stuff that was in there.

[01:05:45] And Roger was brought in to fix everything.

[01:05:47] Yeah, because he had the relationships with Universal Studios.

[01:05:51] And he could say these guys are pretty good.

[01:05:52] They're just dumb and they don't get it.

[01:05:54] And it's their first game and whatever.

[01:05:56] And he smoothed all that out for them.

[01:05:58] And as we know from 2015, everything ran perfectly smooth for Dutch pinball.

[01:06:04] Nine years later, they made the last one.

[01:06:07] They finally made the last person whole that ordered their game, which I find amazing.

[01:06:12] Now I'm going to do a whole other episode sometime on like Dutch pinball.

[01:06:16] I'm going to do another episode like all those.

[01:06:18] You could do one on the big Lebowski itself, that with that Odyssey.

[01:06:22] Exactly.

[01:06:23] Take care of that.

[01:06:24] I don't want to do a deep dive into the big Lebowski.

[01:06:26] But I just wanted to bring up the fact that Roger Sharp is a savior.

[01:06:31] And in fact, he also was roped in with American pinball and hot wheels.

[01:06:36] Yeah, because after Houdini and October Fest, Joel Balser of American pinball wanted to

[01:06:40] do a license theme to boost sales.

[01:06:43] So he reached out to Roger Sharp who gave him a list of themes and they picked hot wheels.

[01:06:48] Hey, here are some licenses you can get.

[01:06:50] They wanted to do, they wanted to have this pin hot wheels to be on location, right?

[01:06:55] They wanted to be a location game.

[01:06:57] They wanted less stuff to break.

[01:07:00] They wanted more people to learn about American pinball and they wanted to get more sales.

[01:07:04] And the way you sell more of something is you put a familiar IP on it.

[01:07:10] And I think hot wheels was actually a pretty good theme.

[01:07:12] What do you think?

[01:07:13] I really like, I love the robot chicken animation stuff.

[01:07:19] Ah, it was good.

[01:07:20] Now, I think what let hot wheels down was the play field.

[01:07:23] No, I think what let hot wheels down was COVID.

[01:07:26] That killed the whole reveal for that thing, unfortunately.

[01:07:29] Yeah, yeah.

[01:07:30] And there were a couple of things with, like for example, it didn't have any loop deloops

[01:07:35] and it didn't have like a specific toy.

[01:07:37] And we'll get into that maybe some other episode.

[01:07:39] But I thought it was a very cool theme in general.

[01:07:43] I thought the animations were great.

[01:07:45] I thought the rules were pretty much there.

[01:07:48] I got a friend who has one and I love playing it every time I play it.

[01:07:52] It just isn't, it's just, it's just kind of missing that one thing.

[01:07:57] And it's tough to put that on.

[01:07:59] Now through the pandemic, that's when we got into something that nobody has ever heard

[01:08:04] of.

[01:08:05] And that's called pinball, the man who saved the game.

[01:08:08] And what is that?

[01:08:09] It's a movie.

[01:08:10] It's a movie.

[01:08:11] Roger Sharp has a movie based on himself.

[01:08:13] Does any pinball like normy, somebody who knows you play pinball and stuff like that,

[01:08:19] have they ever come up to you and been like, hey, have you heard of this film?

[01:08:22] No.

[01:08:23] Come on.

[01:08:24] No, actually, I have never seen this film.

[01:08:28] So I have had, I would say 10, 12 people come up to me and they're like, hey, you play

[01:08:34] pinball, right?

[01:08:35] Have you seen this pinball movie?

[01:08:37] Like I haven't seen it, right?

[01:08:39] They're like, you should see this pinball movie.

[01:08:41] Or have you seen this pinball movie?

[01:08:43] It's in, you know, it's on my app.

[01:08:45] Or I've seen it on Google.

[01:08:48] And it's so funny how this has brought in people who not necessarily know anything about

[01:08:54] pinball in her.

[01:08:55] They find it particularly interesting.

[01:08:57] And one of the reasons why they find it interesting is that this film is like a legit film.

[01:09:07] It has a 95% rotten tomatoes review number.

[01:09:13] It's like a good film.

[01:09:15] And you haven't seen it.

[01:09:16] Well, it's like a romance film just with pinball elements.

[01:09:20] That was the key to make people actually want to watch it.

[01:09:24] Because if you made it just about pinball, no one would watch the thing at all.

[01:09:27] Yeah, no, that would not probably be why.

[01:09:30] But this is, this is, this has a little bit less to do with Roger Sharp saving pinball.

[01:09:36] And it has more to do with the relationship of Roger Sharp and his wife, Ellen.

[01:09:42] As Roger struggles to rebuild his life as a journalist in New York City.

[01:09:46] And this stars Michael Fah, Faced, as Roger Sharp, he has a terrible fake mustache in this

[01:09:52] movie, which is itself kind of funny and adds to it, I guess.

[01:09:57] And it has Crystal Reed who plays Ellen, who I think is phenomenal in this film.

[01:10:02] The directors did an amazing job.

[01:10:04] The cast did an amazing job.

[01:10:05] And it was done on a fairly small budget.

[01:10:07] A brag brothers.

[01:10:09] They did a great job, great job.

[01:10:11] Now the film debuted in the Hamptons, which is a thing I only know because of Seinfeld.

[01:10:18] At the Hamptons Film Festival to mostly positive reviews, it was then released in a wide variety

[01:10:24] of on-demand video services such as Google Video, etc., etc. in early 2023.

[01:10:31] I've purchased this film on Google Video, watched it with my wife, and she loved this

[01:10:36] film.

[01:10:37] And I loved this film as well.

[01:10:39] The only downside to it was that there's a scene where they bring in Roger and his two

[01:10:45] sons at the end to kind of sum it up.

[01:10:48] Oh, are the actors that play the sons don't look anything like them?

[01:10:51] And it's not that they have to look like them, but they definitely made Zach look better

[01:10:57] looking in the film than he is in real life.

[01:10:59] Not if anything is his sons, you have Josh Sharp, who is the CFO of Rothrills, who we

[01:11:04] mentioned earlier.

[01:11:06] And Zach is other son who is the head of marketing for Stern Pimble.

[01:11:11] How cool would it be to just be like a weird side character in a film about your father's

[01:11:15] life?

[01:11:16] Although how icky is it that they're talking about your father and mother like, you know,

[01:11:21] doing the bad thing?

[01:11:26] So just to tie it up.

[01:11:28] You haven't seen the film.

[01:11:29] Are you ever going to see the film?

[01:11:31] Probably someday.

[01:11:32] It's on my media center.

[01:11:34] It's sitting there.

[01:11:35] It's just if I, it's like, hum, Hong Kong action movie from the 80s or a pinball movie.

[01:11:41] I know which one I'm choosing and I need to pinball movie.

[01:11:44] Maybe sometime we should do an episode after you see the film.

[01:11:48] You can watch the film.

[01:11:50] And then what we'll do is we'll do a watch along episode.

[01:11:53] Oh, God, no, no, no.

[01:11:55] You don't want to do a watch along?

[01:11:56] Maybe Bruce will do a watch along with me.

[01:11:59] It's kind of like Jurassic Park.

[01:12:02] I had never seen Jurassic Park.

[01:12:04] And everyone's got a new Jurassic.

[01:12:05] He was a professional Jurassic.

[01:12:06] Have you not seen Jurassic Park?

[01:12:08] Yes.

[01:12:09] So I did finally watch it.

[01:12:10] It was good.

[01:12:11] It was good.

[01:12:12] Okay.

[01:12:13] I mean, the creature effects were good.

[01:12:17] Still good.

[01:12:18] Still hold up.

[01:12:19] Still good to this day.

[01:12:20] Mind boggle.

[01:12:21] But a lot of it was just kind of dumb.

[01:12:24] I don't know.

[01:12:25] It's not, you know, I'm a child of Spielberg's best work.

[01:12:30] Let's put that way.

[01:12:31] And you know, Raiders of the Lost Ark, this was not.

[01:12:34] Yeah, totally.

[01:12:35] No, I mean, you know what I mean?

[01:12:37] This was not, this was not Joaz level.

[01:12:39] So Roger did so much more in pinball than save pinball in the 1970s.

[01:12:46] The marketing, you know, being involved in tournament play.

[01:12:50] His relationship with Steve Epstein and evangelizing pinball throughout New York City and the Midwest.

[01:12:56] Like he's done so much more and I don't think people give him enough credit for what

[01:13:00] he's actually done.

[01:13:02] They just kind of distill it down into two things.

[01:13:04] He got the T2 license and he had a movie made about himself.

[01:13:09] But he's so much more than that.

[01:13:11] Don't you think?

[01:13:12] Well, Roger says, I never thought that what I've been able to achieve over the past

[01:13:17] 30 years would have been my, I guess, either my destiny or my legacy in life.

[01:13:22] I have no second thoughts about the way it's gone.

[01:13:24] The fact that both Joshua and Zachary have taken the mantle is really something special.

[01:13:29] I'm appreciating the fact that they enjoy the industry and come to it with absolute passion

[01:13:33] and dedication and an earnest belief in not only what it is today, currently, but with

[01:13:37] the potential reality is for it in the future.

[01:13:41] That's something that's great.

[01:13:43] Roger is a quote machine.

[01:13:45] What's your favorite Roger Sharp game?

[01:13:47] I said Cyclops.

[01:13:48] I like Stingray.

[01:13:50] No.

[01:13:52] Wrong answer.

[01:13:53] What's your favorite Roger Sharp license?

[01:13:55] Oh, I mean T2.

[01:13:59] Yeah.

[01:14:00] Totally.

[01:14:01] Everything was made so much money.

[01:14:05] Not just in the pinball game, but that was the days where they actually got the license

[01:14:10] before the movie came out.

[01:14:12] So they had access to the script.

[01:14:14] So they knew the liquid metal thing was going to happen for the movie came out and was released

[01:14:17] at the same time the movie was released, which never happens anymore.

[01:14:21] That's another thing that's really changed with the licensing.

[01:14:23] They would get the scripts ahead of time and the movies that the games could be released

[01:14:27] at the same time as the movie.

[01:14:29] Thank you Roger for everything you've done and a tip of the hat to Steve Epstein.

[01:14:36] Stuy.

[01:14:37] Stuy, get over here.

[01:14:39] We need you.

[01:14:40] All right.

[01:14:42] All right.

[01:14:43] Is he sitting on your lap?

[01:14:45] And no comment.

[01:14:46] And what the shit that does?

[01:14:48] I don't think it's...

[01:14:49] Okay.

[01:14:50] As always, you can send your comments, questions, corrections and concerns to civil world

[01:14:54] chronicles at gmail.com.

[01:14:55] We look forward to all your messages and we read every one.

[01:14:59] What?

[01:15:00] What?

[01:15:01] What?

[01:15:02] Will you say that?

[01:15:03] Yes, I will, Stuy.

[01:15:04] Don't forget, I also have a podcast.

[01:15:06] It's called SlamTill podcast.

[01:15:08] You can check us out.

[01:15:09] I have to say that or my podcast mate Bruce gets really mad at me.

[01:15:14] It's okay.

[01:15:15] Sui, you can continue.

[01:16:09] Roger Sharp is hailed as the man who saved pinball.

[01:16:27] Hailed it?

[01:16:28] I did it again.

[01:16:29] I did it last month too.

[01:16:34] The first one was Elvira in the Perry Monsters.

[01:16:39] Oops.

[01:16:40] Patch remonsters?

[01:16:44] Oh.

[01:16:45] There.

[01:16:46] I once saw him without his mustache.

[01:16:50] What?

[01:16:51] Yeah, he shaved it briefly.

[01:16:53] I remember going to...

[01:16:54] I think it was Florida.

[01:16:55] Like a November thing?

[01:16:56] And he was there and he had no mustache.

[01:16:58] And it was just like...

[01:16:59] It affected me.

[01:17:03] It just wasn't right.

[01:17:05] And the next time I saw him, it was back again.

[01:17:06] Like, oh, thank God.

[01:17:08] That was scary.

[01:17:09] Do not do that again.

[01:17:11] I wonder if his family was like...

[01:17:13] They were probably telling him like...

[01:17:15] Shave your mustache off.

[01:17:16] We dare you.

[01:17:17] And then he did.

[01:17:18] And then they were like, oh, grow that back immediately.
